abk	AMOS Music Bank
Tracker-like music player created by François Lionet for his AMOS Basic programming language. AMOS comes with programs for converting tracker and Sonix music to the AMOS format.

ac1d	AC1D-DC1A Packer
A module packer created by Carsten Sørensen (Slammer/Anarchy).  First used in Anarchy's "In The Kitchen" demo.

agi	Sierra AGI
A sound format used in the first Sierra games that used the AGI (Adventure Game Interpreter) system.

alp	Alcatraz Packer
A packer that was only used by two games, Oldtimer and Cedric and the Lost Sceptre. The sound format appears to be very similar to NoisePacker.

amc	A.M.Composer 1.2
Music format created by Marc Hawliteck of Vesalia-Soft.

ash	Ashley Hogg
A format created by Ashley 'Ash' Hogg. A later version of this format used a Protracker packer using routine by Jonathan Menzies.

ast	Actionamics Sound Tool
Created by Michael Kleps for the game Dynablaster.

aam	Art & Magic
A music format created by the Art and Magic team for the ingame music in the game Agony.

bd	Benn Daglish
A music format created for Ben 'Benn' Daglish by Colin 'Fungus the Bogeyman' Dooley .

bds	Benn Daglish SID
A music format created by Ben 'Benn' Daglish based on his C64 version.

bp	SoundMon 2.X
bp and bp3 are Amiga tracker module file extensions associated with the Sound-Monitor music editors developed by Brian Postma. .bp (SoundMon 2.X) is used for tracking modules created in version 2.1 and 2.2 of the software. It features 4 audio channels and supports up to 15 instruments, which can be custom-drawn synth shapes or audio samples. .bp3 (SoundMon 3.X) is the updated file format. Unlike standard Amiga .mod trackers that relied purely on sampled audio, Brian Postma's SoundMon was known for its hybrid approach: it featured a dedicated drawing tool for waveform generation and 9 synthetic audio effects. Each audio channel maintained its own individual pattern sequence rather than a single global arrangement. Patterns could be dynamically transposed by note value or by instrument mid-playback.

bp3	SoundMon 3.X
bp and bp3 are Amiga tracker module file extensions associated with the Sound-Monitor music editors developed by Brian Postma. .bp (SoundMon 2.X) is used for tracking modules created in version 2.1 and 2.2 of the software. It features 4 audio channels and supports up to 15 instruments, which can be custom-drawn synth shapes or audio samples. .bp3 (SoundMon 3.X) is the updated file format. Unlike standard Amiga .mod trackers that relied purely on sampled audio, Brian Postma's SoundMon was known for its hybrid approach: it featured a dedicated drawing tool for waveform generation and 9 synthetic audio effects. Each audio channel maintained its own individual pattern sequence rather than a single global arrangement. Patterns could be dynamically transposed by note value or by instrument mid-playback.

bss	Beathoven Synthesizer
A music format created by Thomas Lopatic (Dr.Nobody/HQC) 1987, often used in Rainbow Arts and Tristar productions from 1987-88.

bye	Andrew Parton
A music format that appears to have only been used in the game B-17 Flying Fortress.

chan	Channel Players
A module packer created by Alan/Impact in 1994.

cin	Cinemaware
A MIDI-like music format that appears to have only been used in Cinemaware's last game, Wings.

cm	CustomMade
A music and fx format created by Yvo Zoer and Ron Klaren.

core	Core Design
A music and fx format used in early Core Design games, possibly created by Ben 'Benn' Daglish.

cust	DeliTracker Custom
The .cust (or .cus) is a catch-all Amiga music format primarily associated with the vintage DeliTracker music player. It is basically a meta-format that's not in any other known format. It is essentially a compiled "plug-in" that combines custom music data with its own specific playback and replay code. On the Amiga, there were hundreds of different tracking software and proprietary game music engines. When players like DeliTracker or EaglePlayer didn't have a native plug-in for a particular obscure tune, they used the .cus/.cust format. This allowed the player to execute the developer's raw audio and assembly code just as the original game or application did.

cus	DeliTracker Custom
The .cus (or .cust) is a catch-all Amiga music format primarily associated with the vintage DeliTracker music player. It is basically a meta-format that's not in any other known format. It is essentially a compiled "plug-in" that combines custom music data with its own specific playback and replay code. On the Amiga, there were hundreds of different tracking software and proprietary game music engines. When players like DeliTracker or EaglePlayer didn't have a native plug-in for a particular obscure tune, they used the .cus/.cust format. This allowed the player to execute the developer's raw audio and assembly code just as the original game or application did.

dat	Paul Robotham
A MIDI-like music format created by Pete Barnett and used by Paul Robotham.

dh	David Hanney
A music format created by David Hanney.

di	Digital Illusions
A module packer with subsong support, created by The Silents for their pinball games. Also known as GrapeTracker.

digi	DIGI Booster
The DIGI Booster (DIGI) format is a native module format created for the Amiga, introducing advanced multi-channel tracking to the platform in 1997. Developed by Tomasz and Waldemar Piasta, it helped Amiga musicians move past the hardware limitations of the standard 4-channel Amiga Paula chip. Allowed up to 8 channels on classic Amiga hardware, and scaled up to 128 channels in the later DigiBooster Pro versions. DigiBooster Pro integrated a highly respected Roland TB-303 emulator, enabling musicians to generate authentic techno and acid-house basslines directly inside the tracker. Included enhanced commands for panning, echo, global volume envelopes, and sample retro-effects that bypassed standard Amiga hardware limitations. Supported 16-bit mixing and high sample rates on upgraded Amiga systems featuring graphics and sound cards (like CyberSound or AHI drivers).

dl	Dave Lowe
A music format created by Dave Lowe (Uncle Art).

dln	Dave Lowe New
A newer version of the Dave Lowe music routine.

dm2	DeltaMusic 2.0
A synthetic music format created by Bent Nielsen.

ds	Dynamic Synthesizer
An early music format created by Chris Huelsbeck, a predecessor of TFMX.

dsc	Digital Sonix & Chrome
A music format created by Andrew Bailey & David Hanlon.

dsr	Desire
A music format created by Dentons in 1993.

dum	Infogrames
A music format that was mainly used in games published by Infogrames. Each song file (.dum) has a separate sample file (.ins), but multiple song files can share the same sample file. The majority of the music is also composed by Charles Callet. The delitracker replayer for this format called it "Rob Hubbard 2", but the consensus is that there is no connection between Rob Hubbard and this audio format or the music. It is possible the previous naming was due to some similarities between the replayer code. The creator of this music format is currently unknown.

dw	David Whittaker
.dw is Amiga music format developed by legendary chip-music composer David Whittaker. Unlike standard tracker modules (such as .mod or .s3m) that serve strictly as data containers, a .dw file is actually a raw Motorola 68000 assembly binary code block. The music data is natively baked directly into Whittaker’s custom playback engine. Because there is no standard file header, modern player plugins must scan the file's raw bytecode to find specific opcode sequences to initialize playback. David Whittaker never created or released a public user interface or "tracker" software for this format. Instead of composing visually, Whittaker created his iconic soundtracks by entering note arrays and hexadecimal instructions directly into a machine code monitor and assembler. This specific format powered some of the most famous games of the 16-bit era, including Shadow of the Beast, Obliterator, and Speedball.

dz	Darius Zendeh
A music format created by Darius Zendeh (Mark II/Quadlite). It is basically his old Mark II Sound-System format with support for subsongs.

ems	Editeur Musical Sequentiel
A music format created by Ringard' for use in their demos and games.

ex	Fashion Tracker
A music format created by the 'Fashion' team.

fc13	Future Composer 1.3
A synthetic music editor created by Supersero/Superions in 1990, based on Jochen Hippel's routines.

fc14	Future Composer 1.4
A synthetic music editor created by Supersero/Superions in 1990, based on Jochen Hippel's routines.

fg	Fred Gray
A music format used by Fred Gray.

fp	Future Player
A synthetic music format created in 1988 by Paul van der Valk, predecessor of the Medley Sound Editor.

fred	Fred Editor
Music editor and audio routines by Frédéric Hahn with some support from Julien Clermonte.  Also (wrongly) known as Fredmon or Fred Monitor.

fw	FWMP
The custom music routine used in Forgotton Worlds.

gmc	Game Music Creator
A direct competitor of Soundtracker, by Andreas Tadic.  It is very similar to Soundtracker, although it's not a module packer.

han	Digital Sound Creations
A format created by Andrew Bailey and David Hanlon and appears to only have been used in early Bullfrog games.

hd	Howie Davies
A music format created by Gary Antcliffe and Howie Davies in 1990, used in PAL Developments games.

hip	Hippel
A music format created by legendary Jochen Hippel (Mad Max/The Exceptions).  This can also include Hippel 7V (seven voices) music. sog. is a more modern prefix for the latest replayer.

hipc	Hippel-COSO
A variant of the Hippel music format.  This also includes Hippel COSO 7V (seven voices) music. COSO means "crunched datablock", i.e. the music data is compressed.  The Hippel-COSO file format can be decrunched into the regular Hippel format. soc. is a more modern prefix for the latest replayer.

soc	Hippel-COSO
A variant of the Hippel music format.  This also includes Hippel COSO 7V (seven voices) music. COSO means "crunched datablock", i.e. the music data is compressed.  The Hippel-COSO file format can be decrunched into the regular Hippel format. soc. is a more modern prefix for the latest replayer.

hmc	Heatseeker mc1.0
A module packer created by Fabrice Cantegrel.

is	Images
A module packer created by Neil Crossley, used in games that were ported from the Atari ST to the Amiga in 1990 by Images Design.

jam	JamCracker
A Noisetracker-alike music format created by M. Gemmel and Xag of Betrayal in 1990.

jcb	Jason Brooke
A music format created by Jason C Brooke.

jd	Special FX
A music format used in Special FX games, usually by Jonathan Dunn.

jmf	Janko Mrsic-Flogel
A music format created by Janko Mrsic-Flogel.

jo	Jesper Olsen
A music format created by Jesper Olsen.

jp	Jason Page
A music format created by Jason Page.  It was also used as the basis for Jason's music routines on the Atari ST, SNES and Megadrive.

jpo	Steve Turner
An older version of the Jason Page format, created by Steve Turner and used in Graftgold games.

jt	Jeroen Tel
Also known as 'Maniacs Of Noise Old', this music format was created by Charles Deenen and Jeroen Tel, used by the Maniacs of Noise.

kh	Kris Hatlelid
A music format created by Kris Hatlelid.

ksm	Kefrens Sound Machine
A tracker clone created by Razmo/Kefrens in 1989.

lme	Leggless Music Editor
A music editor created by Leggless/Silents.

mc	Mark Cooksey
A music format created by Mark Cooksey and Richard Frankish.

mdat	TFMX / TFMX 7V / TFMX Pro
"The Final Musicsystem eXtended".  Elaborate music formats devised and created by Chris Huelsbeck, with Peter Thierolf writing the editor. The TFMX 7V uses Jochen Hippel's routines to get seven voices on the four channel Amiga.

md	Mike Davies
A music format created in 1989 by Mike Davies, often used in Tiertex games.

med	OctaMED
The .med file extension represents the native tracker format of OctaMED (originally Music EDitor), one of the most famous, sophisticated, and commercially successful audio desktop applications on Amiga. Developed by Teijo Kinnunen, MED debuted in 1989 as a free 4-channel Amiga tracker. It evolved into a commercial release called OctaMED, which broke the standard Amiga 4-channel hardware barrier by using CPU-driven mixing to offer 8 or more simultaneous audio channels. The final major iteration, OctaMED Sound Studio (OSS), expanded the format to support up to 64 channels, 16-bit audio samples, direct-to-disk recording, and MIDI integration. While standard trackers like ProTracker (.mod) dominated the Amiga gaming landscape, .med took a completely different path optimized for studio musicians. However, because OctaMED mixed extra audio channels entirely in software rather than utilizing the Amiga's native Paula sound chip hardware, it required massive amounts of CPU time. This complexity made the format largely unviable for video games, which needed to reserve processing power for graphics and gameplay. The format was highly popular with mainstream electronic, breakbeat, and early jungle music producers (such as Urban Shakedown and Aphrodite). It featured a highly flexible tempo system, advanced command effects, and unparalleled MIDI control that allowed the Amiga to act as a central sequencer for external hardware synthesizers. Unlike standard linear trackers, .med files organized arrangements into highly customizable blocks that could vary drastically in length and tempo from one section to another.

mmd0	OctaMED MMD0
OctaMED (originally just MED, short for Music EDitor) was developed by Teijo Kinnunen. It became one of the most powerful and flexible trackers on the Amiga, eventually allowing up to 64 channels and MIDI support. The internal module data (MMD) was iteratively updated: MMD0 / MMD1 are older versions of the MED file format. MMD1 introduced multi-module features and expanded block data. In MMD-based formats, multi-part songs often include identifying tags like MCNT, MCN1, MCN2, or MCN3 within the file.

mmd1	OctaMED MMD1
OctaMED (originally just MED, short for Music EDitor) was developed by Teijo Kinnunen. It became one of the most powerful and flexible trackers on the Amiga, eventually allowing up to 64 channels and MIDI support. The internal module data (MMD) was iteratively updated: MMD0 / MMD1 are older versions of the MED file format. MMD1 introduced multi-module features and expanded block data. In MMD-based formats, multi-part songs often include identifying tags like MCNT, MCN1, MCN2, or MCN3 within the file.

mmd2	OctaMED MMD2
Later iterations of the OctaMed MMD format. The structures for MMD2 and MMD3 are virtually identical and support complex effects, extended instruments, and a large number of channels. In MMD-based formats, multi-part songs often include identifying tags like MCNT, MCN1, MCN2, or MCN3 within the file.

mmd3	OctaMED MMD3
Later iterations of the OctaMed MMD format. The structures for MMD2 and MMD3 are virtually identical and support complex effects, extended instruments, and a large number of channels. In MMD-based formats, multi-part songs often include identifying tags like MCNT, MCN1, MCN2, or MCN3 within the file.

mfp	Magnetic Fields Packer
A module packer created by Shaun Southern.

mkii	Mark II Sound-System
A music format created by Darius Zendeh (Mark II/Quadlite), the music was originally hand written in assembly language as data. Later a music editor was created.

mmdc	MMDC
A module packer created by Tony Crowther.

mod	SoundTracker / SoundTracker 2.6 / NoiseTracker / Protracker / StarTrekker / ChipTracker
The original legendary tracker music editor, created by Karsten Obarski (and the most common extension). The MOD format was the first file format for tracked music on the Commodore Amiga. A very basic version of this format (with only very few pattern commands and short samples supported) was introduced by Karsten Obarski’s Ultimate SoundTracker. It was designed to use 4 channels each with one voice. Ultimate SoundTracker was soon superseded by NoiseTracker and ProTracker, which allowed for more tracker commands (effects), longer samples, more patterns and other improvements. Later, variants of the MOD format that appeared on the Personal Computer extended the number of channels, added panning commands (the Amiga’s four hardware channels had a pre-defined stereo setup) and expanded the Amiga’s frequency limit, allowing for more octaves of notes to be supported. Arguably one of the most widespread tracker formats (also due to its use in many computer games and demos), it is also one of the simplest to use, but also only provides few pattern commands to use. Instruments cannot be used in the MOD format, only 8-bit samples with a maximum size of 128 KB per sample and with a limited set of parameters. Initial tempo, number of rows (always 64), and the “time signature” cannot be defined (always uses the highlight values provided in the Display setup). There is limited sample control and few global settings. The 2.6 version by Mnemotron/Spreadpoint differs from Sound/Noise/ProTracker in that each pattern is no longer made up from 4 joined tracks, but instead channel uses its own sub-patterns. This enables you to create a drum beat and repeat that without having to copy and paste it into each track. File format is similar to that of Protracker. NoiseTracker is an evolution of the Soundtracker format by Per Tufvesson (Mahoney/Northstar) and Anders Berkeman (Kaktus/Silents). Protracker is the venerable successor of Noisetracker, originally created by the Amiga Freelancers (Lars and Anders Hamre, Sven Vahsen and Rune Johnsrud), followed by Peter Hanning and Anders Ramsay for version 2.1 to 2.3, then by the Cryptoburners (Ivar Just Olsen, Tom Bech and Bjarte Andreaeassen). StarTrekker is a Soundtracker clone created in 1990 by Björn Wesen (Exolon/Fairlight).  The "4AM" replayer can play synthetic sound samples. ChipTracker (also known as KRIS Tracker) is a module packer created by KRIS/Anarchy for use by Matthew Simmonds (4-Mat/Anarchy). If you read all this text give yourself a pat on the back!

mok	Silmarils
A music format created by Michel Pernot.

mon	Maniacs of Noise
The M.O.N. (Maniacs of Noise) music format is a historic audio tracker format created for the Commodore 64 (C64) home computer. It was developed by Charles Deenen and Frédéric Hahn to allow the famous C64 music group, Maniacs of Noise, to compose complex video game soundtracks using the system's SID sound chip. M.O.N. Old was the initial driver and editor shell used by the group in the late 1980s. It handled standard music data layouts, converting tracker notes into instructions for the SID chip. M.O.N. New was an upgraded, highly optimized version of the sound driver. It featured a completely revised, much faster replayer routine written by legendary C64 composer Jeroen Tel. The new replayer allowed for more complex sound effects, faster tempos, and unique vibrato/arpeggio techniques without slowing down game performance.

mp2	MP2 (MPEG-1 Audio Layer II)
An MP2 file (MPEG-1 Audio Layer II) is a lossy audio compression format developed by the Moving Picture Experts Group. While largely replaced by the ubiquitous MP3 for consumer music, MP2 remains an industry standard for professional radio and television broadcasting due to its high stability and resilience to data errors. It uses perceptual coding to eliminate inaudible sounds, balancing reduced file sizes with high fidelity. Supports bitrates from 32 to 320 kbps/sec and sampling rates of 32, 44.1, and 48 kHz. MP2 files have strong error-correction capabilities, making them highly reliable in noisy or multi-transmission broadcast environments. You can think of MP2 as the predecessor to MP3 (MPEG-1 Audio Layer III). While MP3 offers greater compression for smaller file sizes, MP2 retains a slightly better frequency response at higher bitrates and avoids certain structural artifacts, which is why broadcasting equipment still natively supports it. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

mp3	MP3
The MP3 format is a highly compressed digital audio file standard developed by the Moving Picture Experts Group, it achieves a 75-95% reduction in file size compared to uncompressed formats (like WAV) by using "lossy" compression. It permanently removes inaudible frequencies to save space while maintaining high fidelity. Because it is universally supported, MP3 remains a great everyday choice, though you have to consider a few key details. MP3 uses a psychoacoustic algorithm to eliminate sounds that the human ear typically cannot perceive. The resulting quality is determined by the bit rate (measured in kbps—kilobits per second). 128 kbps: Highly compressed, smaller files, but with noticeable loss in high-end audio and detail. 192 - 320 kbps: The sweet spot for "CD quality," offering a great balance between space saving and acoustic fidelity. Pros: Ideal for saving hard drive space and for sharing across the internet. It is the most universally compatible audio format across operating systems, smart devices, and media players. Cons: It is a "lossy" format, meaning the removed audio data cannot be restored. It is not recommended for professional audio production, recording, or archiving. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

flac	FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec)
FLAC = Free Lossless Audio Codec. It is a highly popular digital audio format that compresses music to about half its original size without discarding any audio data. Unlike lossy formats (like MP3), it retains the exact, bit-for-bit quality of the original master recording. FLAC uses a mathematical compression algorithm that works similarly to how a ZIP file compresses documents. Instead of permanently stripping out inaudible frequencies like lossy formats do, FLAC encodes repeating or predictable audio patterns more efficiently. When played back, the device decompresses the file in real-time back to the original bit-perfect audio stream. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

wav	WAV (Waveform Audio File Format)
WAV (Waveform Audio File Format) is a standard uncompressed, lossless audio format developed by Microsoft and IBM. It perfectly preserves original audio data, making it the industry standard for professional recording and archiving. However, this exactness results in very large file sizes compared to compressed formats like MP3. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

aif	AIFF (Audio Interchange File Format)
The AIF and AIFF file extensions both represent the Audio Interchange File Format, a lossless and uncompressed audio standard developed by Apple in 1988. Functioning as Apple's equivalent to the Windows WAV format, it delivers CD-quality sound but requires significant storage space. They typically use uncompressed Linear Pulse Code Modulation (LPCM). Uncompressed audio retains all original data, meaning a 4-minute stereo track at 16-bit/44.1 kHz requires around 40MB of space. Both .aif and .aiff refer to the exact same file type. The shorter .aif extension was originally used for legacy 8.3 systems (like MS-DOS). Compared to WAV files, AIFF format features superior metadata storage, allowing for embedded album artwork, track names, and loop points used in music production. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

aiff	AIFF (Audio Interchange File Format)
The AIF and AIFF file extensions both represent the Audio Interchange File Format, a lossless and uncompressed audio standard developed by Apple in 1988. Functioning as Apple's equivalent to the Windows WAV format, it delivers CD-quality sound but requires significant storage space. They typically use uncompressed Linear Pulse Code Modulation (LPCM). Uncompressed audio retains all original data, meaning a 4-minute stereo track at 16-bit/44.1 kHz requires around 40MB of space. Both .aif and .aiff refer to the exact same file type. The shorter .aif extension was originally used for legacy 8.3 systems (like MS-DOS). Compared to WAV files, AIFF format features superior metadata storage, allowing for embedded album artwork, track names, and loop points used in music production. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

opus	Opus
The Opus format is a highly versatile, royalty-free, and open-source lossy audio codec. Standardized by the IETF, it combines technologies from Skype’s SILK and Xiph.Org's CELT. It is renowned for its incredible efficiency, scaling effortlessly from low-bitrate voice calls to high-fidelity stereo music. Opus provides superior audio quality at much lower bitrates compared to older formats like MP3 or AAC. A 64kbps or 128kbps Opus file typically outperforms a 256kbps MP3. Designed natively for the internet, Opus has an exceptionally low delay (ranging from 5 to 26.5 milliseconds), making it the gold standard for real-time applications. It automatically adjusts its bitrate, audio bandwidth, and encoding in real-time depending on your network conditions, ensuring your audio rarely drops or stutters. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

mug	Mugician
Also known as "Digital Mugician", this music format was created by Reiner van Vliet (Rhino/Team Hoi).

mug2	Mugician II
A music format created by Reiner van Vliet (Rhino/Team Hoi), it allows for seven voice tunes like the TFMX and Hippel formats.

mw	Martin Walker
A music format created by Martin Walker.

mxtx	MaxTrax
A music format created by David 'Talin' Joiner and Joe Pearce for playing scores created or edited in Music-X.

np2	NoisePacker 2.x
A module packer created by Twins/Phenomena.

np3	NoisePacker 3.x
A module packer created by Twins/Phenomena.

ntp	NovoTrade Packer
A module packer created by NovoTrade.

ogg	OGG Vorbis
The OGG format is a free, open-source multimedia container developed by the Xiph.Org Foundation. It holds audio, video, text, and metadata and typically uses the lossy Vorbis codec. Because it is patent-free, OGG is heavily used in indie gaming and web streaming. OGG Vorbis often delivers better audio quality at lower bitrates compared to MP3. Unlike MP3 or AAC formats, OGG requires no licensing fees, making it popular for open-source software and game development. The OGG container allows data to be streamed in real-time without needing to load the entire file into memory. While standard desktop and Android devices natively support OGG, hardware decoding is less common than with MP3, which can cause increased battery drain on mobile devices. Apple devices (iOS/macOS) do not natively support OGG playback without third-party applications. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

okt	Oktalyzer
Oktalyzer Formats (.okt / .okta) Oktalyzer was created by Walter Quintus and Martin Koch in the early 1990s. It is famous for implementing software mixing to achieve up to 8 channels on the standard 4-channel Amiga Paula chip. .OKT files follow a memory-dump model and .OKTA files use an IFF-like structure. Oktalyzer could mix down to virtual channels to output 8 tracks at the expense of audio quality and CPU overhead.

okta	Oktalyzer
Oktalyzer Formats (.okt / .okta) Oktalyzer was created by Walter Quintus and Martin Koch in the early 1990s. It is famous for implementing software mixing to achieve up to 8 channels on the standard 4-channel Amiga Paula chip. .OKT files follow a memory-dump model and .OKTA files use an IFF-like structure. Oktalyzer could mix down to virtual channels to output 8 tracks at the expense of audio quality and CPU overhead.

osp	Synth Pack
A music format created in 1989 by Karsten Obarski.

p4x	The Player 4.x
A module packer created by Jarno Paananen (Guru/Sahara Surfers), this particular version of The Player (4.1a) was never released publically, yet it was leaked to game development companies and became one of the most widespread module packers in existance.

p5x	The Player 5.x
A module packer created by Jarno Paananen (Guru/Sahara Surfers), this version was not widely released and is only seen in a few demo scene productions.

p6x	The Player 6.x
A module packer created by Jarno Paananen (Guru/Sahara Surfers), this is the most popular module packing software used on the Amiga.

pap	Pierre Adane Packer
A module packer created by Pierre Adane.

pha	Pha Packer
A module packer created by Azatoth/Phenomena.

pp21	ProPacker 2.1
A module packer created by Christian Estrup.

pp30	ProPacker 3.0
A module packer created by Christian Estrup.

pr1	Promizer
A module packer created by Franck Hulsmann (MC68000/Masque).

pru2	Prorunner 2.0
A module packer by Cosmos/Sanity.

prun	Prorunner 1.0
A module packer by Cosmos/Sanity.

ps	Paul Shields
A music format created by Paul Hunter and used by Paul Shields.

psa	Professional Sound Artists
A music format created by a group called the Professional Sound Artists.

psf	Soundfactory
A music format created in 1989 by Zuheir Urwani and Thomas Kolbe.  Also known as the Profiteam Sound Factory format.

puma	PumaTracker
A music format created by Jean-Charles Meyrignac on the Atari ST, ported to the Amiga by Pierre-Eric Loriaux.

pvp	Peter Verswyvelen Packer
A module packer created by Peter Verswyvelen.

rh	Rob Hubbard
A music format created by Rob Hubbard.

rho	Rob Hubbard Old
An older version of the Rob Hubbard format.

rjp	Richard Joseph
A music editor written by Alan McCarthy and Andi Smithers.  Also known as the Vectordean format.

rk	Ron Klaren
A music and fx format created by Yvo Zoer and Ron Klaren.  Files in this format have an eagleplayer specific header.

s3m	ScreamTracker 3
A multi-channel PC music editor created by Sami Tammilehto (PSI/Future Crew). Scream Tracker 3′s S3M format added sample tuning (defining the exact frequency of the middle C for samples), increased the number of playback channels, made use of an extra column specifically for volume control (which was extended by other trackers to handle panning commands as well), and compressed pattern data for smaller file sizes. Other improvements include the ability to set the initial tempo and speed (ticks per row), initial global and sample volume as well as initial channel panning. Compared to MOD, there is also a different, expanded set of effect commands. A unique feature of the S3M format is the ability to make use of samples and synthesized FM instruments (via the Yamaha OPL2 chip) at the same time.

s7g	Hippel 7V
This is the first Amiga music format to support seven voices. The song data can also be compressed as COSO.

sa	Sonic Arranger
A music editor created by Carlsten Schlote, Branko Mikic and Carsten Herbst.

sb	Steve Barrett
Music composed by Steve Barrett using the Ariston replay routine.

scn	Sean Connolly
A music format created by Sean 'Odie' Connolly.

scr	Sean Conran
A music format created by Sean Conran.

sct	Soundcontrol
A music editor created by Holger Gehrmann.

scumm	SCUMM
SCUMM stands for "Script Creation Utility for Maniac Mansion", and the music format is that which is used in LucasArts adventures prior to Monkey Island 2, when it was replaced with the "iMuse" system.

sdr	Synth Dream
A music format created in 1991 by Laurens 'Lotus' Tummers and John Tonnard.

sfx	SoundFX
A Soundtracker clone created by Christian Haller and Christian A. Weber.

sid	Commodore 64 SID
.sid file format container used to play music from the Commodore 64. Unlike modern audio files (MP3 or WAV) which store digitized waveforms, or MIDI files which store raw musical notes, a .sid file contains actual MOS 6502/6510 machine language code. When you play a SID file, a dedicated player must emulate the C64's microprocessor and its specialized MOS Technology Sound Interface Device (SID) chip to execute the code and generate the sound in real time. The primary data block consists of the C64 assembler code (the music player routine) and the associated music data (patterns, instruments, and tracking notes). When executed by a player, the code directly modifies the 29 hardware registers of the SID chip 50 times (PAL systems) or 60 times (NTSC systems) per second to manipulate the oscillators, envelopes, and filters. A single .sid file can package multiple tracks or sound effects (often sharing the same instrument data), known as "subtunes". From 1990 to 1994, Sundell and Birk developed a SID player for their Amiga demo "The 100 Most Remembered 64 Game-Tunes" and for their tool PlaySID. Originally, a SID tune was spread over two files. Due to popular demand, a one-file format was introduced in PlaySID V2.2. This was the first version of the SID format.

sid2	Sidmon II
A music editor created by Michael Kleps (Unknown/D.O.C).

sjs	SoundPlayer
A music format created by Scott Johnston, only used in the game Lemmings.

sm	Sound Master
A music format created by Michiel Soede, used mostly by Jeroen Soede.

smus	Sonix Music Driver
Also know as IFF-SMUS, this is another Electronic Arts standardised music format, created along with 8SVX, ILBM and FTXT as the EA IFF 85 specification.  Other than the archaic Aegis Sonix and EA's own Deluxe Music Construction Set (DMCS), almost no software uses this format. Sonix includes some non-standard instrument file formats that are not part of the IFF-SMUS specification.  Don Adan created a replayer based on the code from Aegis Sonix in order to play Sonix-specific SMUS music.

snk	Paul Summers
A music format created in 1989 by Paul Summers and Mike Chilton.

spl	Sound Programming Language
A music programming language created by Holder Gehrmann.  First created for the C64 and Tandy PC, later ported to the Amiga and Atari ST.  Also known as SOPROL.

ss	Speedy System
This is the first Michael Winterberg music format for the Amiga.  Known versions are 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 3.0, and 'A'.

svx	IFF-8SVX
The Amiga's standard format for 8-bit sound samples, created by Electronic Arts in 1984 at the birth of the Amiga.

tf	Follin Player II
A music format used by the Follin brothers.

thm	Thomas Hermann
A music format created in 1989 by Thomas Hermann.

tme	The Musical Enlightenment
A music format created in n 1989 by N.J. Luuring Jr.

tp3	Trackerpacker 3
A module packer created by Crazy Crack/MEXX.

tpu	Dirk Bialluch
A format created by The Power Unit and only used in the game Time Lock.

tw	Sound Images
A music format created by Tony Williams.

uds	Unique Development
A music format created by Unique Development, found in both the Amiga and Atari ST versions of the game Obsession.

unic	Unic Tracker / Laxity Tracker
Also called UNIC Tracker / UNIC Tracker 2, module packers created by Anders E. Hansen, used in Kefrens demos.

wb	Wally Beben
Music composed by Wally Beben using the Ariston replay routine.

xm	FastTracker 2.0
A multi-channel PC music editor by Magnus Högdahl and Fredrik Huss. With the XM format, Fasttracker 2 introduced the concept of “instruments”, which applied volume and panning envelopes to samples. It also added the ability to map several samples to the same instrument for multi-sampled instruments or drum sets. XM uses instrument-based panning – instrument numbers in patterns always reset the channel’s panning to the current sample’s initial panning. It uses MOD effect command letters, plus a few of its own for more sound control. You can define initial tempos and speeds; provide envelopes to samples by assigning them to instruments; set sample looping and apply automatic sample vibrato oscillation; and with OpenMPT, apply VST plugins to instruments, channels, or the whole track to spice up your old XM compositions.

nsf	NES Sound Format
music ripped from Nintendo NES/Famicom games, devised by Kevin Horton in 1999 (originally "NESM"); the 6502 sound code plus a small header, replayed on an emulated 2A03. Hugely popular for original chiptune composition. It is the definitive standard for preserving and composing Nintendo Entertainment System chiptunes. It isolates the audio data from a game ROM, allowing the music to play without running the actual game. Contains the original MOS Technology 6502 machine code instructions and register writes that drive the audio.Target Hardware: Replayed by emulating the Ricoh 2A03 (NTSC) or 2A07 (PAL) microprocessors, which contain the NES Programmable Sound Generator (PSG). It stores metadata like song count, starting track, load/init/play addresses, game title, artist, and copyright strings. Kevin Horton, known prominently online by his handle Kevtris, is a legendary hardware hacker and electrical engineer who single-handedly invented the NES Sound Format (NSF) spec. He originally dubbed the file extension .NESM (NES Music) when he designed it, before the community universally shortened the extension to .NSF. Kevtris is currently (2026) Director of FPGA Development at Analogue. He designed the internal core logic from scratch for the Analogue Nt Mini, Super Nt, Mega Sg, and Analogue Pocket. He also engineered HiDef NES: the popular internal hardware mod that allows original NES consoles to output pixel-perfect, lag-free 1080p video and audio via HDMI.

nsfe	NES Sound Format Extended
The NSFE (NES Sound Format Extended) is an upgraded variant of the standard NSF (Nintendo Sound Format) container. The original NSF format stores raw audio code and data ripped directly from Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) games, but its rigid header severely limits metadata. NSFE solves this by using a flexible, chunk-based structure (similar to PNG files) to store rich, per-track information. The original NSF format only allows one global game title and author name for the entire file. NSFE supports unique titles, composers, and artists for every individual track. Standard NSF files rely on the player to guess when a track ends, often resulting in sudden cuts or infinite loops. NSFE embeds exact track lengths, fade-out times, and post-fade silence durations. Playlists can be customized, allowing tracks to be reordered logically (e.g., matching the game's soundtrack CD) rather than following the chaotic internal memory order of the ROM. It allows developers to flag and skip empty, unused, or duplicate sound effect tracks inside the file.

spc	SPC700 (Super Nintendo)
A 64KB dump of the SNES SPC700/S-SMP sound RAM, so every tune is exactly 64K and self-contained. Carries ID666 tags; collections are often distributed RAR-packed as .rsn.

gbs	Game Boy Sound System
Game Boy Sound System format, a specialized chiptune rip format used to package audio code from Nintendo Game Boy and Game Boy Color games. Designed by Scott Worley in 1999, the specification improved upon the older Game Boy Rip (.gbr) format by introducing a structured, standardized descriptive file header. Like other video game sound formats (such as NES .nsf or Sega .vgm), a .gbs file is a compact machine code dump extracted directly from a game ROM. It contains the exact Z80-derivative assembly code instructions, instrumentation tables, and waveform data used by the original game.

gbr	Game Boy (GBR)
An early Game Boy music rip format with a small header; superseded by GBS, which added the detail needed to replay more advanced driver tricks.

hes	Hudson Entertainment Sound
The .hes file extension stands for Hudson Entertainment Sound, the standard chiptune rip format used to store and play back audio code from the NEC PC Engine and TurboGrafx-16 consoles. A .hes file is a compiled binary data dump extracted directly from a game's HuCard or CD-ROM. It contains the exact machine code instructions and audio tables written by the game developers. Instead of streaming recorded audio, a .hes player emulates the console's primary CPU—the 8-bit HuC6280. This processor contains a built-in programmable sound generator (PSG) that synthesizes the music in real time. The audio capabilities of the PC Engine were highly advanced for the 8-bit era, giving .hes files a distinct, rich fidelity. The HuC6280 features 6 independent audio channels. Channels 1 through 4 use custom, user-defined 5-bit wavetables (32 bytes long) to create unique instrument timbres. Channels 5 and 6 can be switched to generate white noise for percussion. Channels 1 and 2 can be paired to create low-frequency oscillation (LFO) effects, enabling unique vibrato and tremolo sounds.

vgm	Video Game Music log
VGM (Video Game Music) is an audio file format for multiple video game platforms such as Master System, Game Gear, Mega Drive/Genesis, MSX, Neo Geo, IBM compatibles (Adlib/SoundBlaster), and has expanded to a variety of arcade system boards since its release. The standard filename extension is .vgm, but files can also be Gzip compressed into .vgz files. The VGM format is different from formats like NSF or SID, which contain the game's music code. Instead, the instructions sent to the sound chip are logged.

vgz	Video Game Music log (gzip)
A gzip-compressed VGM file; identical contents to .vgm, just smaller on disk. VGM/VGZ (Video Game Music) is an audio file format for multiple video game platforms such as Master System, Game Gear, Mega Drive/Genesis, MSX, Neo Geo, IBM compatibles (Adlib/SoundBlaster), and has expanded to a variety of arcade system boards since its release. The standard filename extension is .vgm, but files can also be Gzip compressed into .vgz files. Technically .vgz files should be named .vgm.gz, but because some operating systems' file managers cannot handle file name suffixes that themselves contain a period (e.g. Microsoft Windows), .vgz is instead used in order to launch a VGM player and not a file archiver program such as WinZip or WinRAR. The VGM format is different from formats like NSF or SID, which contain the game's music code. Instead, the instructions sent to the sound chip are logged.

sap	Slight Atari Player
Music ripped from Atari 8-bit (XL/XE) computers, replayed on an emulated 6502 + POKEY chip. The standard archive format for the Atari 8-bit scene (ASMA collection).

psf2	PlayStation 2 Sound Format
A PSF2 sub-format (Portable Sound Format, by Neill Corlett): a PlayStation 2 sequencer program plus samples, replayed by emulating the original hardware.

usf	Ultra64 Sound Format
A PSF sub-format by Adam Gashlin holding the sound code of a Nintendo 64 game, played back by emulating the N64's audio path.

gsf	Game Boy Advance Sound Format
The GSF (Game Boy Advance Sound Format) is a specialized audio sub-format modeled after the Portable Sound Format (PSF) specifications. Created by homebrew developers Caitsith2 and Zoopd, a .gsf file does not contain a standard audio recording like an MP3. Instead, it holds the actual ARM processor code, sound drivers, and sequenced data ripped directly from a Game Boy Advance (GBA) game ROM. When you play a GSF file, an audio player emulates the GBA's CPU and its internal sound hardware to generate the music in real time. Renders authentic GBA audio by emulating its hybrid sound system, which combines two legacy Game Boy sound channels (square wave, wave, noise) with two 8-bit Direct Sound PCM channels. Because it stores raw sequencing code and compressed game assets instead of uncompressed waveforms, full video game soundtracks can fit into files measuring only a few hundred kilobytes. Most GSF files are split into two parts to save disk space: a larger .gslib file that contains the shared audio driver code for a game, and individual, tiny .minigsf files containing only the note and track data for specific songs. Utilizes standardized PSF tags to store metadata like song titles, game names, composers, year of release, track lengths, and fade-out durations.

2sf	Nintendo DS Sound Format
A PSF sub-format that emulates a Nintendo DS sound program; a small .2sf usually pairs with a shared .2sflib data file.

dsf	Dreamcast Sound Format
A PSF sub-format holding a Sega Dreamcast sound program, replayed via emulation of the console's audio hardware.

ssf	Saturn Sound Format
A PSF sub-format for Sega Saturn music, emulating the console's SCSP sound system.

qsf	Capcom Q-Sound Format
The .miniqsf and .qsf formats belong to the Portable Sound Format (PSF) family. They contain ripped, sequenced music data directly extracted from Capcom CPS-1 and CPS-2 arcade games (e.g., Street Fighter II, Alien vs. Predator) that utilized the famous QSound hardware.QSound is a 3D audio processing algorithm licensed by QSound Labs. The hardware was designed to create a wide, positional stereo image and immersive spatial effects using standard stereo speakers. When these sound logs (QSF files) are rendered, they preserve the signature panning and echo effects from the original arcade circuit.

miniqsf	Capcom Q-Sound Format (mini)
The .miniqsf and .qsf formats belong to the Portable Sound Format (PSF) family. They contain ripped, sequenced music data directly extracted from Capcom CPS-1 and CPS-2 arcade games (e.g., Street Fighter II, Alien vs. Predator) that utilized the famous QSound hardware. QSound is a 3D audio processing algorithm licensed by QSound Labs. The hardware was designed to create a wide, positional stereo image and immersive spatial effects using standard stereo speakers. When these sound logs (QSF files) are rendered, they preserve the signature panning and echo effects from the original arcade circuit.

sndh	SNDH (Atari ST)
SNDH is the definitive audio file format used for archiving and playing back chiptune music from the Atari ST. Devised and standard-coded by Jochen "BDC" Knaus of the ST music group Brainstorm. Contains the original Motorola 68000 machine code assembly driver required to run the song directly on the Atari ST's hardware. Prefixed with an ASCII "SNDH" metadata header containing tags for title, artist, year, and replay speed. Files are traditionally compressed using Pack-ICE, a popular data packer from the Atari demoscene era. Specifically written to command the Atari ST's internal Yamaha YM2149 Programmable Sound Generator (PSG) chip.

sc68	SC68
Specialized unified audio file container format created by Benjamin Gerard designed to preserve and play back chip music from both the Atari ST and Commodore Amiga computers. Packages the original Motorola 68000 (680x0) assembly code directly alongside the music data. Utilizes a software emulator to run the original replay code, ensuring highly accurate sound reproduction. Emulates both the Atari ST's Yamaha YM2149 sound chip and the Amiga's Paula chip.

ym	ST-Sound YM register dump
ST-Sound (.YM) is a register-dump audio file format designed to capture and play back chiptunes from systems using the AY-3-8910 or YM2149 sound chips. Created by Arnaud Carré (known as Leonard of the demogroup Oxygene) specifically for his emulator, ST-Sound. Rather than storing executable code, it records a raw dump of the sound chip's internal registers, typically sampled 50 times per second (50 Hz). Covers music from multiple vintage 8-bit and 16-bit computers, including the Atari ST, Amstrad CPC, and ZX Spectrum. Files are natively compressed using LHA (.lha/.lh1) compression to significantly reduce the size of the repetitive register data. Unlike SNDH, YM files do not require a Motorola 68000 CPU emulator to play, making them much easier to implement in lightweight, cross-platform modern players. YM1-YM3 were early, uncompressed and basic structural formats. YM5 is the most widely adopted version, introducing advanced header information, loop points, and precise clock speed settings for different computers (e.g., 2 MHz for Atari ST vs. 1.77 MHz for ZX Spectrum). YM6 added support for digital drums and special sound effects.

ymst	YM (stereo)
A stereo variant of the YM AY-3-8910/YM2149 register-dump format, replayed by the same StSound-style engine. While standard .ym files (created by Leonard/OXYGENE) contain interleaved register data for the YM2149 or AY-3-8910 chips, .ymst files usually indicate a modified version containing pre-rendered or specifically formatted stereo streams. Like the base .ym format, it does not store musical notation or machine code (like a .SID or .MOD file). Instead, it is a frame-by-frame dump of the exact register values required to synthesize the chiptune. Original AY/YM chips output 3 native mono channels. A stereo variant like .ymst splits these channels across left and right audio outputs (e.g., hard-panning channels A, B, and C) to create an enhanced spatial experience. Both the base .ym and .ymst variants are designed to be replayed directly by the StSound-style engine (created by Arnaud Carré). This highly optimized C++ library handles the CPU-free rendering of the chip's sound parameters. Because StSound acts as a universal emulator, these files allow modern systems to accurately recreate the iconic 8-bit chiptune sounds originally pioneered by platforms like the Atari ST and Amstrad CPC.

mdx	MDX (Sharp X68000)
The dominant Sharp X68000 music format, built on Music Macro Language for the Yamaha YM2151 (OPM); may carry a companion .pdx file of PCM samples. Default driver MXDRV by K. Maekawa & Missy.M.

vtx	VTX (Vortex)
A compact, LHA-packed AY-3-8910/YM2149 register-dump format with embedded metadata, widely used to archive ZX Spectrum (and other AY) chip tunes.

vt2	Vortex Tracker II
The native module of Vortex Tracker II, a Windows tracker by Sergey Bulba for the AY/YM chips of the ZX Spectrum and similar machines; saves to PT3 as well.

asc	ASC Sound Master
ASC Sound Master was developed for the classic 48K and 128K ZX Spectrum by Andrei Sendetskiy (also known as "ASC" or Andrew Strikes Code). It is a native, tracker-style music editor designed to squeeze complex chiptunes out of the hardware's 1-bit beeper and the AY-3-8912 sound chip. The format operates on a traditional tracker matrix. Supports an 8-octave range for melodic control. Tracks up to 32 individual patterns with 1 to 64 rows per pattern. Features up to 16 user-definable samples and 16 ornaments, which act as frequency/pitch envelopes. Allows for 1 to 256 structural positions/sequences in a song.

stc	ZX Sound Tracker
ZX Sound Tracker is a file format used by the Sound Tracker series of audio editors on the Sinclair ZX Spectrum 128K computer. Introduced in the early 1990s, it allows musicians to compose three-channel music tailored specifically for the system's AY-3-8912 programmable sound generator (PSG) chip. Structural layout of an STC module includes: 8 available octaves, 1 to 256 structural positions, 1 to 32 separate patterns, 1 to 64 positions per individual pattern, 16 instrument samples, 16 pitch ornaments (used for arpeggios and fast chords). The .stc extension usually denotes files generated by the ST Song Compiler v1.2 or built directly into early compilations of Sound Tracker (versions 1.1 through 1.3). Variant trackers emerged around this ecosystem, resulting in high compatibility across the platform: Super Sonic (a tracker created by KLAV that outputs fully compatible Sound Tracker structures), and ZXMUS.EXE (Version 1.02 Beta created by Super Dima features a near-identical layout). Many .stc files carry a hardcoded internal identifier string (SOUND TRACKER v1.3). However, composers frequently overwrote this area with custom track names, metadata, or song lengths.

pt1	Pro Tracker 1 (ZX)
Pro Tracker 1 is a classic 3-channel chiptune music format created for the 8-bit Sinclair ZX Spectrum home computer. It compiles musical data specifically to be played back using the AY-3-8910 chip. Supports exactly 3 independent audio channels (A, B, and C). Features square wave generation, noise generation, and hardware volume envelopes. Uses a standard tracker architecture comprising a sequence player list, modular patterns, and distinct sample/ornament definitions. Pro Tracker 1 represents an early phase in the prolific Soviet and Eastern European ZX Spectrum demoscene of the 1990s. It was later succeeded by more advanced versions like Pro Tracker 2 (PT2) and the highly popular Pro Tracker 3 (PT3), which optimized the file structure and added more complex effects.

pt2	Pro Tracker 2 (ZX)
Pro Tracker 2 for the ZX Spectrum is an iconic tracker designed for the AY-3-8910 sound chip. It was a cornerstone of the legendary Russian demoscene, heavily popularized on the 128k Spectrum and its clones like the Pentagon. Heavily inspired by Amiga trackers.

pt3	Pro Tracker 3 (ZX)
Pro Tracker 3 (.pt3) format is the de-facto standard for chiptune music on the ZX Spectrum (and its clones) equipped with the AY-3-8910 sound chip. Originally developed in the 1990s as part of the Pro Tracker family, PT3 files contain sequence and ornament data that directly drive the 3-channel AY sound chip rather than storing raw audio.

stp	Sound Tracker Pro (ZX)
.STP/.STP2 formats are classic chiptune tracker modules native to the ZX Spectrum home computer. Created in the 1990s by the software groups KSA Software and Pentagram, these formats were generated by the Sound Tracker Pro and Sound Tracker Pro 2 music editors. The data inside .STP and .STP2 files is specifically sequenced to drive the AY-3-8910 (or AY-3-8912) Programmable Sound Generator (PSG). This chip was standard in the ZX Spectrum 128K models and offered 3 Audio Channels with Independent square wave generators and Noise Generator (used for percussion or sound effects). Programmable amplitude shapes to modify the sound textures. Sound Tracker Pro (.STP) was an evolution of early 8-bit trackers, heavily inspired by the Amiga's Ultimate Soundtracker. It gave ZX Spectrum musicians a vertical grid interface to sequence notes, ornaments (fast note loops), and sample envelopes for the AY chip. Sound Tracker Pro 2 (.STP2) is an updated version that improved upon the original workflow, optimized playback routines, and allowed for more efficient memory storage of patterns and instruments.

stp2	Sound Tracker Pro 2 (ZX)
.STP/.STP2 formats are classic chiptune tracker modules native to the ZX Spectrum home computer. Created in the 1990s by the software groups KSA Software and Pentagram, these formats were generated by the Sound Tracker Pro and Sound Tracker Pro 2 music editors. The data inside .STP and .STP2 files is specifically sequenced to drive the AY-3-8910 (or AY-3-8912) Programmable Sound Generator (PSG). This chip was standard in the ZX Spectrum 128K models and offered 3 Audio Channels with Independent square wave generators and Noise Generator (used for percussion or sound effects). Programmable amplitude shapes to modify the sound textures. Sound Tracker Pro (.STP) was an evolution of early 8-bit trackers, heavily inspired by the Amiga's Ultimate Soundtracker. It gave ZX Spectrum musicians a vertical grid interface to sequence notes, ornaments (fast note loops), and sample envelopes for the AY chip. Sound Tracker Pro 2 (.STP2) is an updated version that improved upon the original workflow, optimized playback routines, and allowed for more efficient memory storage of patterns and instruments.

sqt	SQ-Tracker (ZX)
An AY module format produced by SQ-Tracker on the ZX Spectrum.

ftc	Fast Tracker (ZX)
An AY-3-8910 tracker format for the ZX Spectrum (Fast Tracker / FTC), one of the native Spectrum chip editors.

zxs	ZX Spectrum (ZXS)
A ZX Spectrum AY chip-music format handled by the AY emulation players.

kss	KSS (MSX)
The .kss file extension represents the standard KSS format, a comprehensive video game sound rip format used to encapsulate audio code and data from MSX home computers and related legacy hardware like the Sega Master System and Game Gear. Unlike single-chip audio formats, a .kss file serves as a multi-chip emulator module. It contains the raw Z80 assembly code, register writes, and sound tables extracted directly from game ROMs or disks. The format is uniquely complex because it can simultaneously target and coordinate multiple legendary sound chips found across the MSX ecosystem: AY-3-8910 (PSG) - The baseline MSX internal 3-channel programmable sound generator; Konami SCC / SCC+ - Konami's custom 5-channel wavetable synthesis chip, famous for its rich, full textures; YM2413 (FM-PAC) - A 9-channel or 6-channel plus percussion FM synthesis chip; Y8950 (MSX-AUDIO) - An advanced FM synthesis chip featuring ADPCM digital audio sampling capabilities.

mgs	MGSDRV (MSX)
MGSDRV is a legendary MSX sound driver created by Ain (mgsdrv) in the late 1980s and 1990s. It became the de facto standard for tracking and playing back complex chiptune music on MSX computers, pushing the hardware to its absolute limits. The driver is famous for its ability to control multiple audio chips simultaneously: [1] PSG (AY-3-8910) - The standard MSX internal sound chip, offering 3 channels of square waves. [2] SCC / SCC-I (Sound Creative Chip) - Konami's custom wave-table chip, adding 5 extra channels of smooth, rich tones. [3] MSX-Music (YM2413 / OPLL) - An FM synthesis chip offering 9 channels of melodic instruments or 6 melody channels plus 5 rhythm sounds. [4] MSX-Audio (Y8950 / OPL) - A more advanced FM chip supporting ADPCM sampling. By combining chips, composers could sequence over 17 channels of audio at once. Music is written in Music Macro Language (MML) as text files (.MUG) and compiled into binary music data (.MGS). Written in optimized Z80 assembly to ensure it runs smoothly during gameplay without lagging the CPU.

s98	S98 (PC-98)
A register-log format (close kin to VGM) for capturing FM sound from NEC PC-98 games and other Japanese hardware.

it	Impulse Tracker
Jeffrey Lim's 1995 DOS tracker, an evolution of Scream Tracker 3 adding 16-bit samples, instruments with envelopes and a resonant filter. Long the gold standard of PC tracking; open-sourced in 2014. Impulse Tracker introduced the IT format, which, in comparison to the XM format, allows instruments to also specify the transposition of assigned samples depending on the note being played, applying resonant filters to samples, and defining “New Note Actions” (NNAs) for instruments to release playing notes on a pattern channel while a new note is already playing, which helps to keep the number of pattern channels at a manageable amount while still being able to have a high polyphony. Like S3M files (and contrary to XM files), panning is channel-based, meaning that channels have an initial pan position which can be overridden by panning commands or instruments’ and samples’ default panning settings.

stm	Scream Tracker 2
The module format of Future Crew's Scream Tracker 2, an influential early PC tracker that paved the way for S3M and the whole DOS tracking scene.

mtm	MultiTracker
The MultiTracker Module format by Daniel Goldstein (Renaissance), a multi-channel PC tracker of the early 1990s demoscene.

far	Farandole Composer
The native format of Farandole Composer (Daniel Potter), a DOS tracker notable for its piano-roll style note entry.

gdm	General Digital Music
The General Digital Music format of the Bells, Whistles & Sound Boards (BWSB) library, used as a normalized container by some DOS games.

dmf	X-Tracker / DefleMask
DMF is used as a file extension for two completely different tracker module formats, which causes a lot of confusion: [ 1 ] X-Tracker / Delusion Music File (d-lusion) - a DOS-based tracker format created by D-Lusion in the 1990s, used primarily for standard digital sample-based music. [ 2 ] DefleMask Module Format (DefleMask) - format for DefleMask, a modern cross-platform chiptune tracker that writes music for retro soundchips (like those in the Sega Genesis, Game Boy, and NES). The developer of DefleMask was unaware the X-Tracker DMF format already existed when he chose the file extension.

amf	Advanced Module Format (DMP/DSMI)
The AMF format stands for Advanced Module Format. It is a prominent DOS-era tracking container created in 1993 by Otto Chrons. It served as the native format for his Dual Module Player (DMP) and the Digital Sound & Music Interface (DSMI) programmer library. It was also adopted as the native save format for the Asylum Music Format Tracker. Format supports up to 32 Channels and it nroke past standard 4-channel limits to offer flexible multi-channel tracking. Designed specifically for the DSMI library, allowing DOS game developers to easily integrate high-quality tracker music into games. Note that the .amf extension is shared by two distinct tracker iterations: the original Advanced Module Format (Otto Chrons) and the later Asylum Music Format. Compressed and optimized for fast loading and low memory footprints on 386 and 486 PC systems.

ult	UltraTracker
The native module of MAS UltraTracker by Marc Andre Schallehn, a DOS tracker built around the Gravis Ultrasound.

mdl	DigiTrakker
The module format of DigiTrakker (n-Factor), a DOS tracker supporting larger sample sets created by Prodatron for MS-DOS (PC). Unlike standard MOD files which only support basic 8-bit samples, .mdl modules take advantage of DigiTrakker's expanded instrument headers (29 bytes) and internal envelope features. The file format can sometimes be difficult to auto-detect because DigiTrakker stored custom artist names directly inside the tracker ID.

669	Composer 669 (UNIS 669)
The 669 format is a pioneer PC tracker module format created by Tran (Renaud Marcoux) for Composer 669 (UNIS 669). Released in 1992, it was one of the very first tracker programs developed for the PC, breaking the Amiga's dominance in the early 1990s European demoscene. The format gets its distinct name from the "if" (hex 69 66) marker bytes found at the very beginning of the file structure. While classic Amiga trackers were limited to 4 channels, Composer 669 doubled this to 8 channels, allowing for significantly denser compositions. Designed specifically to output digital audio through early PC sound cards like the Sound Blaster and Gravis Ultrasound (GUS). Includes unique, aggressive frequency slide effects and native vibrato parameters that gave 669 modules a raw, metallic chiptune flavor.

mo3	MO3
A compressed module container that stores tracker patterns plus MP3/OGG-encoded samples, shrinking MOD/XM/IT/S3M files for distribution.

mptm	OpenMPT
OpenMPT's native format, extending the IT format with modern features (more channels, plugins, advanced envelopes). It is based on the IT format, with added capabilities of custom sample tunings, Parameter Control events, multiple Pattern Sequences, tempo swing, fractional tempos, global resampling settings and many more features.

Compared to IT, this format also adds back support for the OPL chip as found in the S3M format with several useful additions, such as being able to use the additional OPL3 waveforms, apply instrument envelopes to FM instruments or controlling the modulator intensity through sample filter cutoff.

d00	EdLib
The d00 format is the native music module format for EdLib, an MS-DOS tracker created by Jens-Christian Huus (better known as JCH) of the legendary computer music collective Vibrants. Released in the early 1990s, EdLib was built specifically to sequence music for the Yamaha YM3812 (OPL2) sound chip found on standard AdLib and Sound Blaster hardware, becoming a staple in European demoscene productions and early DOS games. Instead of sequencing digital audio samples, the format saves raw register parameter blocks to drive the AdLib's 9-channel FM synthesis engine. Designed by chiptune veterans, it features native code pathways for dense pitch modulation, fast arpeggios, and hardware vibrato definitions that give .d00 files a highly distinct, polished retro sound. Because it stores compact instrument parameters and pattern data rather than bulky audio data, .d00 files are incredibly small, often taking up only a few kilobytes. Some implementations pair the .d00 sequence file with an external instrument library file, though many modules embed the instrument definitions directly.

cmf	Creative Music File
The .CMF (Creative Music File) format is a foundational PC audio format introduced by Creative Technology in the early 1990s. It was designed to showcase the capabilities of the Sound Blaster sound cards in MS-DOS environments, offering a lightweight way to deliver complex game soundtracks. .CMF format functions identically to a standard MIDI file, but with one critical enhancement: Unlike standard .MID files that rely on the playback device's default internal sounds, a .CMF file embeds its own custom FM synthesis parameters (timbre, envelopes, and multipliers) directly within the file header. This bundling ensured that a music track sounded exactly as the composer intended across different systems, bypassing the unpredictability of early PC soundcard configurations. The sequencer data inside .CMF files was specifically engineered to drive the Yamaha OPL2 (YM3812) and OPL3 (YMF262) FM synthesis chips. These chips were the heart of the original AdLib and Sound Blaster cards, generating audio by modulating sine waves rather than playing back digital recorded samples. The format was widely adopted by game developers in the early 1990s. Famous titles like Eye of the Beholder, Ultima VI, and Lemmings utilized .CMF files for their soundtracks. Music was typically composed using Creative's proprietary DOS software, such as Creative Composer or Dr. T's Music Composer, and played back via the resident driver SBFMDV.COM.

rol	AdLib Visual Composer
The native format of AdLib Inc.'s Visual Composer: MIDI-like FM music that pulls patches from an external .bnk instrument bank.

laa	LucasArts AdLib
LucasArts AdLib format, a proprietary audio sequence format used during the golden age of PC DOS gaming to deliver music through Yamaha OPL2 and OPL3 FM synthesis chips. The .laa format was a core component of LucasArts’ revolutionary iMUSE (Interactive Music Streaming Engine). This engine allowed game music to transition dynamically based on a player's choices, actions, or location on screen. Instead of storing recorded digital audio, an .laa file contains MIDI-like sequence data alongside custom instrument patch definitions. When processed, this data instructs a Sound Blaster or AdLib sound card exactly how to synthesize the music in real time using FM (Frequency Modulation). This specific format powered the legendary PC versions of classic adventure games, including Monkey Island 2: LeChuck's Revenge, Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis, and Day of the Tentacle. Standard MIDI files rely on a sound card’s built-in instruments. Conversely, .laa files embed custom LucasArts instrument parameters (multipliers, attack/decay/sustain/release curves, and feedback scaling) directly inside the file to guarantee identical audio output across different hardware models. The format tracks note values, tempo changes, and pitch-bend data across multiple channels, specifically optimized for the 9-channel limitation of the OPL2 chip (or the 18 channels of the OPL3).

dro	DOSBox Raw OPL
A raw capture of OPL chip register writes recorded by DOSBox; effectively a hardware log that replays any AdLib game music verbatim.

imf	id Software Music Format
The AdLib OPL format used by Apogee and id Software games (Wolfenstein 3D, Commander Keen), a timed stream of OPL register writes.

hsc	HSC AdLib Composer
The module format of the HSC AdLib Composer (Electronic Rats), a popular AdLib tracker on the PC demoscene.

adl	Westwood ADL
The AdLib/OPL music format used by Westwood Studios games such as Dune II and the Kyrandia series.

ftm	FamiTracker
FamiTracker (by jsr, 2005) module data for the NES 2A03 and its expansion chips; the dominant modern tool for composing new NES/Famicom music. Note that the .ftm extension is shared with the Amiga Face The Music format (an 8-voice tracker, magic FTMN) so you could be listening to an Amiga song as well... not a big deal ;) enjoy!

ahx	AHX (Abyss' Highest Experience)
Abyss' Highest Experience Format - AHX - is a specialized synthetic sound format created for the Commodore Amiga. Developed in the mid-1990s by Martin "Dexter" Wall and Britney "Pink" of the Amiga demo group Abyss, it bypassed traditional sample-based tracking. Instead, it used real-time synthesis to mimic the classic 8-bit sound of the Commodore 64’s SID chip (no samples!). It generates sound entirely through software synthesis using basic waveforms (sine, square, triangle, sawtooth). Because it contains no audio samples, AHX song files are incredibly tiny, often weighing only 1 to 5 kilobytes. The format utilizes features like hard-wiring, ring modulation, and rapid arpeggios to reproduce the distinct retro texture of 8-bit chips. Musicians composed AHX files using a dedicated tracker interface on the Amiga, editing notes and synthesis parameters step-by-step.

hvl	HivelyTracker
An open evolution of the AHX engine; HivelyTracker adds extra channels and stereo while keeping the synthetic Amiga chiptune character.

dbm	DigiBooster Pro
DigiBooster Pro (.dbm) is a advanced music tracker module format created for the Amiga computer by Tomasz Piasta and Waldemar Śmielak under the d-lusion brand. Supports up to 128 (!) independent channels, a massive upgrade from the classic Amiga 4-channel limitation. Handles 16-bit audio samples and high playback frequencies for crisp sound. Includes built-in volume envelopes, panning envelopes, and echo/reverb effects. Runs efficiently on enhanced Amiga systems (PPC/68k) with sound cards like Delphi or Prisma.

fxm	Fuxoft AY Language
A ZX Spectrum AY format by Frantisek Fuxa (Fuxoft), used in 1980s Czech Spectrum games; replayed here via a port of the AY_Emul routines.

amad	AY Amadeus
A ZX Spectrum AY format (Fuxoft / Patrik Rak) wrapped in a ZXAYAMAD container; a close relative of the Fuxoft FXM format.

jxs	JayTrax
A cross-platform tracker with an internal wavedraw synth, written by Rhino; commercial until it went free at version 2.2 around 2004.

mad	PlayerPRO
The native module of PlayerPRO, the long-running Macintosh tracker and module player by Antoine Rosset.

ned	NerdTracker II
A DOS tracker by Michel Iwaniec (Bananmos) dedicated to NES/Famicom 2A03 music, used to compose tunes for real NES hardware.

sks	STarKos
An Amstrad CPC AY tracker by Targhan/Arkos that ran on real CPC hardware; the ancestor of the modern cross-platform Arkos Tracker.

musx	Archimedes Tracker
A sample tracker for the Acorn Archimedes / RISC OS, playing through the machine's VIDC sound hardware.

coco	Coconizer
Coconizer (.coco) is a pioneer sample tracker released in 1990 for the British Acorn Archimedes computer platform. Developed by the software group Playfield, it played a crucial role in bringing the popular "tracker" style of music composition to the ARM-based RISC OS ecosystem (did you know that ARM originally was the acronym for Acorn RISC Machine?). Its standout feature was the ability to import 4-channel ProTracker/Soundtracker .MOD files from the Commodore Amiga. It converted them into its native format, allowing Archimedes users to experience the massive library of Amiga demo-scene music. It utilized the Archimedes' native VidC (Video Controller) chip, which included an 8-bit log-PCM audio system capable of DMA-driven stereo playback across up to 8 virtual channels. Like its Amiga contemporaries, it used a vertical grid system where notes, instrument numbers, volume changes, and effects (like vibrato or arpeggio) were entered manually via keyboard. In 1990, the Archimedes lacked mature, consumer-friendly sampling software compared to the Amiga. Coconizer helped bridge that gap. While it was eventually superseded by more advanced RISC OS trackers (such as Desktop Tracker, Symphony, and ProSound), it remains a highly regarded piece of early UK computing history. And, finally, the player code is running again on an ARM chip here and right now (Apple Silicon M-family).

eup	Euphony (FM Towns)
The .EUP format contains note and automation data designed to drive two distinct audio chips simultaneously. [1] Yamaha YM2612 (OPN2): A 6-channel Frequency Modulation (FM) synthesis chip. This chip handles melody, harmony, and synthesized instruments (the same chip used in the Sega Genesis/Mega Drive). [2] Ricoh RF5C68: An 8-channel Pulse-Code Modulation (PCM) chip. This handles digital audio playback, primarily used for realistic drum samples, sound effects, or vocal snippets. Unlike standard MIDI files which rely on a device's internal General MIDI sounds, Euphony requires external instrument definitions to sound correct. It utilizes two distinct extension types: [1] .FMB files: These contain the FM synthesis parameter patches (algorithms, operators, feedback, and envelopes) for the YM2612 chip. [2] .PMB files: These contain the raw PCM audio samples and mapping data used by the RF5C68 chip. The format was native to the FM Towns operating system environment, often used in multimedia applications, homebrew software, and early Japanese PC games.

mgt	Megatracker
An Atari ST sample tracker by Cream, one of the ST's multi-channel software-mixing music editors.

pac	SBStudio
The module format of SBStudio, a general-purpose sample-based MS-DOS tracker written by Henning Hellstroem in the early 1990s.

omf	Onyx Music File
A MOD-like Amiga format used on the 1993 Onyx musicdisk "Jangle"; stores its sequence and pattern data in reverse order.

ixs	Ixalance
A synth tracker by Shortcut Software (Maarten van Strien) that synthesizes and compresses its own wavetables, producing extremely tiny song files.

ptk	ProTrekkr
A tracker combining a soft-synth with a sample tracker (a heavily modified NoiseTrekker 2), aimed at small demos and chip/IDM tunes.

ntk	NoiseTrekker / ProTrekkr
An earlier NoiseTrekker-lineage module read by the ProTrekkr engine, mixing soft-synth voices with sampled instruments.

uni	MikMod (UNIMOD)
The internal UNIMOD format of the MikMod library, into which it converts many tracker formats; occasionally stored on disk directly.

sunvox	SunVox
A modular soft-synth and tracker by Alexander "NightRadio" Zolotov (2008), pairing a node-graph synth with tracker-style sequencing across many platforms.

org	Organya
The chiptune format by Daisuke "Pixel" Amaya created for his game Cave Story, with 8 melody + 8 percussion channels drawn from built-in waveforms.

pn	PokeyNoise
An Atari 8-bit format driving the POKEY chip's noise/synthesis features, played here via an emulated 6502 + POKEY rather than via UADE.

bbsong	Beepola
A cross-platform ZX Spectrum 1-bit "beeper" tracker by Chris Cowley, driving the Spectrum's single-bit speaker through engines like Tritone and Phaser1.

ay	AY Emul (ZX Spectrum / Amstrad CPC)
A snapshot container for AY-3-8910 chip music ripped straight from ZX Spectrum and Amstrad CPC games, devised by Sergey Bulba for his AY_Emul player; it bundles the raw Z80 player code with its init and interrupt entry vectors so the original game routine is replayed verbatim.

psg	AY/YM PSG register dump
A logged stream of writes to the AY-3-8910 / YM2149 programmable sound generator, replayed register-for-register; a simple, lossless way to archive ZX Spectrum (and Atari ST) chip tunes independent of the original player code.

psc	Spectrum Pro Sound Creator
A ZX Spectrum 128K music editor driving the AY-3-8910 sound chip, part of the family of native Spectrum AY trackers.

psm	Pro Sound Maker / Epic MegaGames MASI
The psm format refers to two entirely unrelated music formats sharing the same file extension. In the chiptune and 8-bit tracking scene, it primarily identifies the Pro Sound Maker format for the ZX Spectrum 128K, which drives its internal AY-3-8910 sound chip. Because of the extension conflict with Epic MegaGames' PC-based MASI format, modern players (like yours truly ChipMachineAS!) must read the file's internal data bytes to route it to the correct audio engine. Key Features of the Spectrum Pro Sound Maker Format: 3-Channel AY-3-8910 Audio Specifically targets the AY-3-8910 (or compatible YM2149) programmable sound generator inside the ZX Spectrum 128K model. Utilizes three square-wave tone generators and a single white-noise generator to craft melodies, basslines, and retro percussion. Features hardware envelope shapes to add volume modulation and complex texture to instruments without bloating the file size. Emerged out of the vibrant Russian and Eastern European ZX Spectrum demoscene, where Pro Sound Maker was a popular alternative to trackers like Pro Tracker or Sound Tracker.

gtr	Spectrum Global Tracker
A native ZX Spectrum 128K tracker for the AY-3-8910 sound chip.

chi	Spectrum Chip Tracker
A ZX Spectrum tracker that plays multi-channel digital (sampled) music by software-mixing samples through the machine's DAC rather than the AY tone generators.

tfe	TFM Music Maker
A music format for the TurboSound FM expansion (twin AY plus a Yamaha YM2203-class FM chip) on the ZX Spectrum, written with the TFM Music Maker editor.

cop	Sam Coupé COP
The COP format is a native music module format for the SAM Coupé, a British 8-bit home computer released in 1989. It is designed specifically to drive the system's built-in Philips SAA1099 sound chip, delivering 6-channel stereo sound. Fully utilizes the SAA1099 chip, offering six independent sound channels with programmable stereo positioning (left, right, or center). Relies on square wave generators to produce distinct, retro 8-bit chiptune melodies and sound effects. Includes two built-in noise sources, which composers often pair with square waves to create complex percussion like hi-hats and snares. Covers an 8-octave range per channel, giving musicians plenty of room for deep bass-lines and high-pitched leads.

prg	Commodore executable (PRG)
.prg file is a standard Commodore executable file. Unlike structural music formats (eg .sid), a .prg contains the actual machine code player, the music data tracks, and often a visual driver or presentation interface meant to be loaded and run directly on a real machine or emulator. To play a .prg file containing TED music, a software player cannot simply parse a data stream like an MP3 or MIDI file. Because a .prg is a raw Commodore 16/116/+4 binary executable, the player must actually execute 6502/7501 machine code and emulate the specific sound hardware.

mso	Medley
.mso is a tracker music module format created by Paul van der Valk as the successor to his Future Player format on the Commodore Amiga.

w	SoundSmith (Apple IIgs)
SoundSmith is the well-known and most widely used music tracker on the Apple IIgs. Originally written by Huibert Aalbers as a member of the F.U.N. group, then distributed by European Software Partners, then sold by Seven Hills Software, the new v2 supports the 4soniq quadri/octo-phonic card by Manila Gear.

sun	SUN-Tronic
zeg (from Germany) said on abime (01 July 2012): No editor for this. Each soundtrack comes with a modified version of the replay, with additions, changes. P. Kunath arranged the Delitracker custom songs. It was a hard work. The suntronic files were meant not to come to public. Yes, all given floppy disks have been archived for preparing the delicustoms. And yes, all the data on the disks are messy. bye bye

dsym	Digital Symphony
The DSym (.dsym) format is a classic 8-bit tracking format designed for the Acorn Archimedes and RISC OS operating systems. Developed by Oregan Developments, it bridged the gap between traditional tracker sequencing and the Archimedes' advanced 8-channel stereo audio hardware. Built to leverage the VIDC (Video Controller) chip inside the Acorn Archimedes, which natively allowed up to 8 channels of 8-bit logarithmic (µ-law) digital audio. Like its Amiga .mod counterparts, it embeds digital audio samples directly into the file alongside the note patterns. Features standard tracker components including note values, tempo changes, volume changes, and custom playback effects.

ptcop	PxTone Collage Project
.ptcop and .pttune are native file formats for PxTone Collage, a freeware music sequencer created by Daisuke Amaya (Pixel), the developer of Cave Story. .ptcop (PxTone Collage Project) is the primary, editable project file. It contains all of the raw composition data, arrangement units, sequence events, and local instrument references. .pttune (PxTone Tune) is a compiled, read-only format designed strictly for audio playback. It packages the composition along with its compiled instruments, but typically cannot be edited or modified natively.

pttune	PxTone Tune
.ptcop and .pttune are native file formats for PxTone Collage, a freeware music sequencer created by Daisuke Amaya (Pixel), the developer of Cave Story. .ptcop (PxTone Collage Project) is the primary, editable project file. It contains all of the raw composition data, arrangement units, sequence events, and local instrument references. .pttune (PxTone Tune) is a compiled, read-only format designed strictly for audio playback. It packages the composition along with its compiled instruments, but typically cannot be edited or modified natively.

sgc	SGC (Sega 8-bit / ColecoVision)
While .SGC (and .GC) files are used to play back classic Sega chiptunes via register emulation, they are actually native to Sega's 8-bit systems—the Sega Master System (SMS), Game Gear (GG), and SG-1000—as well as the ColecoVision. They are fundamentally distinct from the 16-bit Sega Genesis/Mega Drive audio architecture. The .SGC extension stands for "SMS, GG, CV" (Sega Master System, Game Gear, ColecoVision). It was proposed by developer Kevin Horton to capture the music of Z80-driven 8-bit consoles. Instead of driving the Sega Genesis’s complex dual-chip setup (Yamaha YM2612 FM chip + SN76489 PSG), .SGC files explicitly target the Texas Instruments SN76489 Programmable Sound Generator (PSG). This chip features 3 square wave tone channels and 1 white noise generator. The format is modeled after the Nintendo Entertainment System's .NSF and Game Boy's .GBS formats. Rather than recording raw audio waveforms, it acts as a standalone executable wrapper: An .SGC file contains a small block of Z80 CPU machine code ripped directly from the game's original ROM. This includes the game's actual music driver routines (the track data, player code, envelopes, and sound effect pointers). The file begins with a custom header specifying the destination platform (e.g., Master System vs. ColecoVision), memory load addresses, initializing vector pointers, and metadata (Track Name, Composer, Copyright).

gc	SGC (Sega 8-bit / ColecoVision)
While .GC (and .SGC) files are used to play back classic Sega chiptunes via register emulation, they are actually native to Sega's 8-bit systems—the Sega Master System (SMS), Game Gear (GG), and SG-1000—as well as the ColecoVision. They are fundamentally distinct from the 16-bit Sega Genesis/Mega Drive audio architecture. The .SGC extension stands for "SMS, GG, CV" (Sega Master System, Game Gear, ColecoVision). It was proposed by developer Kevin Horton to capture the music of Z80-driven 8-bit consoles. Instead of driving the Sega Genesis’s complex dual-chip setup (Yamaha YM2612 FM chip + SN76489 PSG), .SGC files explicitly target the Texas Instruments SN76489 Programmable Sound Generator (PSG). This chip features 3 square wave tone channels and 1 white noise generator. The format is modeled after the Nintendo Entertainment System's .NSF and Game Boy's .GBS formats. Rather than recording raw audio waveforms, it acts as a standalone executable wrapper: An .SGC file contains a small block of Z80 CPU machine code ripped directly from the game's original ROM. This includes the game's actual music driver routines (the track data, player code, envelopes, and sound effect pointers). The file begins with a custom header specifying the destination platform (e.g., Master System vs. ColecoVision), memory load addresses, initializing vector pointers, and metadata (Track Name, Composer, Copyright).

OVI	FMP OVI (PC-98 rhythm samples)
FMPMD (Professional Music Driver) sound system for the NEC PC-98. The driver for this sound file is called FMP, which compiles or interprets the music macro language (MML) into active audio. In the PC-98 scene, game music is typically handled via specific music macro language (MML) compilers that route audio to the Yamaha OPN/OPNA (YM2203 / YM2608) sound chips. The ecosystem is made of Compiled Music (.M or .OPI: the base melodic composition) and Rhythm Modules (.OVI: custom external PCM samples used to drive percussion tracks).

OPI	FMP OPI (PC-98 MML)
FMPMD (Professional Music Driver) sound system for the NEC PC-98. The driver for this sound file is called FMP, which compiles or interprets the music macro language (MML) into active audio. In the PC-98 scene, game music is typically handled via specific music macro language (MML) compilers that route audio to the Yamaha OPN/OPNA (YM2203 / YM2608) sound chips. The ecosystem is made of Compiled Music (.M or .OPI: the base melodic composition) and Rhythm Modules (.OVI: custom external PCM samples used to drive percussion tracks).

m	FMP (PC-98) / Ultima VI (AdLib)
Two unrelated formats share the .m extension. [1] FMP (PC-98): FMPMD (Professional Music Driver) sound system for the NEC PC-98. The driver for this sound file is called FMP, which compiles or interprets the music macro language (MML) into active audio. In the PC-98 scene, game music is typically handled via specific music macro language (MML) compilers that route audio to the Yamaha OPN/OPNA (YM2203 / YM2608) sound chips. The ecosystem is made of Compiled Music (.M or .OPI: the base melodic composition) and Rhythm Modules (.OVI: custom external PCM samples used to drive percussion tracks). [2] Ultima VI (AdLib): The .m music format used in Ultima VI: The False Prophet is a proprietary audio format developed by Origin Systems that stores raw Ad Lib (OPL2) register and delay commands rather than traditional MIDI or tracker data. The music files average about 75 parameter changes per second and operate on a 560 Hz music service. The binary structure consists of a repeating 4-byte pattern: 1 byte for the Ad Lib's address register, 1 byte for the data register, and a little-endian word specifying the delay. Unlike modern module files, .m files do not contain the instrument definitions (patches). The game plays these notes alongside external instrument definitions (stored separately in the game's .sns files) to create the classic Yamaha YM3812 FM synthesis sound.

rsn	SNES SPC archive (RSN)
An .rsn file is a packed archive containing a Super Nintendo game’s complete soundtrack. Essentially, it is just a collection of .spc files (SNES audio dumps) bundled together as a RAR archive and renamed with an .rsn extension to allow emulators and media players to recognize them as soundtracks.

OZI	FMP OZI (PC-98 MML)
The .ozi file extension is a proprietary compiled music macro language (MML) format associated with the FMPMD (FMP) driver series used for NEC PC-98 chiptune music. It contains code that instructs the Yamaha YM2608 (OPNA) FM sound chip found on PC-98 soundboards (like the PC-9801-86).

a2m	AdLib Tracker II
The a2m format is the native module format for AdLib Tracker II (AT2), one of the most powerful and user-friendly trackers designed specifically for DOS-based FM synthesis. It targets the Yamaha YM3812 (OPL2) and YMF262 (OPL3) sound chips popularized by Sound Blaster and AdLib sound cards. Takes full advantage of the stereo OPL3 chip. Features advanced sound macro definitions for vibrato, arpeggiator, and pitch slides that push the FM chip to its limits. Supports 4-operator (4op) FM instruments, custom waveforms, and dedicated percussion modes. Can also be used to target older OPL2-based cards by restricting the channel count.

lds	LOUDNESS Sound System
LOUDNESS Sound System module format created by composer Andras Molnar (known as Disturbed). It was a highly advanced DOS-based tracker system designed for the Yamaha YM3812 (AdLib/OPL2) sound chips. LDS files are celebrated for pushing the standard OPL2 chip to produce complex, DX7-like synth tones. LDS audio engine uses FM synthesis registers to deliver rich, multi-operator, and multi-channel sound. Most famous for its use in the soundtrack for the classic DOS space shooter, Tyrian.

4v	Quartet
The Quartet tracker (developed by Kevin Cowton and Rob Povey for Microdeal) saves music into separate component files rather than a single module like ProTracker. A typical Quartet arrangement requires a .4V score file (the 4-voice sequence) alongside a .SET instrument file (the raw samples). .4V files store the actual composition data (notes, tempo, channel triggers). The format uses traditional staves for input rather than the vertical-scrolling tracker grid. .SET files store the digital instrument samples (the 8-bit audio data) used by the song. A .SET file can be referenced by multiple .4V songs. .4Q files are archive bundle files which contain the song, sample data, and metadata merged into a single archive.

wsr	WonderSwan R
WonderSwan R file format is a container used for chiptune and audio ripped directly from the ROMs of Bandai WonderSwan and WonderSwan Color games. It stores the system's actual sound-driver code and register writes, allowing accurate playback of the original hardware’s audio. The system utilized 4 hardware sound channels capable of playing back 4-bit wavetables (32 bytes), raw 8-bit unsigned PCM samples, and LFSR (Linear Feedback Shift Register) noise. WonderSwan Color models featured an upgraded "Hyper Voice" capability, which routed dedicated 16-bit stereo PCM audio to the headphone jack.

symmod	Symphonie / Symphonie Pro
A legacy Amiga tracker music format created by the tracker application Symphonie / Symphonie Pro. Unlike traditional hardware-limited 4-channel Amiga trackers (like ProTracker), Symphonie was built for higher-end, expanded Amigas. It relies entirely on samples (rather than chiptune synths), but natively supports large, high-quality 16-bit stereo samples. Internally, the player natively performed resonant filtering, oversampling, and effects processing on the samples.

OPX	MSX-MUSIC / FM-PAC
Native music and sound data format used on the MSX family of computers. It is specifically associated with the MSX-MUSIC standard (also known as FM-PAC), containing sequenced FM synthesizer data designed to be played back through the Yamaha YM2413 (OPLL) sound chip. OPX files trigger the 9-channel FM synthesis capabilities or 5-channel rhythm/drum modes of the MSX-MUSIC standard. Similar to other classic MSX music formats like MGS or BGM, an OPX file contains register dumps or music driver-specific data rather than raw digital audio, resulting in very small file sizes.

MBM	MoonBlaster Module
MoonBlaster Module file format is a native chiptune module created with MoonBlaster, a popular MSX tracker. It typically contains FM synthesis data (primarily for the Yamaha YM2413 MSX-MUSIC chip), MSX-AUDIO data, and PSG percussion channels. MoonBlaster saves files in either EDIT mode (larger file sizes with all channel information intact for tracking) or USER mode (optimized and compressed for playback). They are designed to be played back on classic MSX hardware or compatible emulators. Successors to MoonBlaster introduced related formats like MFM (MoonBlaster FM) and MWM (MoonBlaster Wave).

rad	Reality AdLib Tracker
Reality Adlib Tracker, a retro music tracker originally created in the 1990s and updated to sequence Yamaha OPL2/OPL3 FM synthesis. It generates classic retro chip music and sound effects, utilizing incredibly compact file sizes by sending digital instructions to the soundcard. Like traditional trackers, .RAD files are sequence-based, containing lists of notes, instruments, and playback effects that directly program the sound chip. Originally designed for the classic AdLib and Sound Blaster 16 sound cards, the later RAD v2 update added OPL3 support for stereo sound and more channels. RAD files hold up to 127 custom instruments and 128 patterns, playing across 9 distinct channels.

dtm	Digital Tracker / DeFy AdLib
The .DTM extension primarily represents two entirely different tracker formats from the 1990s [1] Softjee Digital Tracker / Digital Home Studio for Atari Falcon 030. Falcon .DTM files represent the cutting-edge of 1990s desktop audio production. Developed by the French software house Softjee, these programs capitalized on the Falcon’s onboard Motorola 56001 Digital Signal Processor (DSP). Unlike standard 4-channel Amiga .MOD files, Softjee's .DTM format supports up to 32 digital sample channels. By offloading the mixing math to the Falcon's DSP, it allowed for much larger sample sizes, higher sample rates, and extended octave ranges without crushing the computer's central CPU. Digital Tracker was the traditional pattern-based tracker, while Digital Home Studio (DHS) evolved into a more comprehensive hard-disk recording and sequencing environment. [2] DeFy AdLib Tracker for IBM PC / MS-DOS ecosystem. PC .DTM stands for DeFy Tracker Module. This was a PC chiptune format created by the demoscene group DeFy for their proprietary tracker. Instead of digital samples, this format sequences instructions for the Yamaha OPL2/OPL3 FM synthesis chips found on AdLib and early Sound Blaster cards. It functions similarly to .CMF or .RAD files, bundling custom instrument patches (register settings for the OPL operators) along with note patterns. . . Atari Falcon .DTM files tend to be quite large (hundreds of kilobytes to megabytes) because they contain heavy digital audio samples. PC DeFy .DTM files are tiny (usually under 50KB) because they only contain note data and FM synth math parameters.

ptm	PolyTracker
The PTM (Poly Tracker Module) format is a mid-1990s PC tracker format created by the demoscene musician and programmer Lone Ranger of the group AcmE. Developed as a direct evolutionary successor to the highly popular Scream Tracker 3 (.s3m) format, it was designed to overcome the structural limitations of early trackers by introducing more complex effects and expanded channel configurations. Expanded support to 32 channels - far beyond the traditional 4-channel Amiga .mod limit, allowing for intricate arrangements and rich instrument layering. Retained the familiar structural logic of .s3m files but added support for more advanced pattern effects, finer volume handling, and panning commands. Stores all musical sequence data, pattern effect registers, and digital PCM audio samples inside a single, unified file. Supported larger sample sizes and improved looping behaviors compared to earlier DOS tracking utilities.

mt2	MadTracker 2
MadTracker 2, a popular Windows-based music tracker software originally released in the early 2000s. Unlike older tracker formats (like .MOD or .XM), .mt2 files natively support VST instruments and effects. They store envelope data for track volumes, built-in DSP effects, and VST parameters. It utilizes up to 64 tracks with 4 polyphony channels per track, stereo samples, and advanced panning.

gtk	Graoumf Tracker
Graoumf Tracker, a highly advanced tracker program for the Atari Falcon 030 developed in France by Laurent de Soras (later updated by the Graoumf Devteam / Swe/YesCREW). It was renowned for pushing the Falcon's DSP and audio capabilities, allowing for up to 32 channels and 16-bit/50kHz hi-fi stereo playback. The .gtk file extension is the predecessor to the .gt2 format introduced in the Windows sequel, Graoumf Tracker 2.

gt2	Graoumf Tracker 2
Graoumf Tracker 2, a tracker program for Windows is the successor to the .gtk format introduced in the prequel, Graoumf Tracker for Atari Falcon.

dsm	Digital Sound Interface Kit (DSIK)
Digital Sound Interface Kit file format is a tracker music module created in 1994. by Carlos Hasan for his DSIK (Digital Sound Interface Kit) DOS library.

c67	Composer 670 (CDFM)
Composer 670 (CDFM) tracker format was created by the demo group Renaissance. It notably powered the DOS game Zone 66. It uniquely combines two synthesis methods into one file: 4 channels of PCM (digital samples) and 9 channels of OPL2 (AdLib/FM) synthesis. The format supports far fewer pattern effects than standard trackers, primarily featuring commands to set note volume.

670	Composer 670 (CDFM)
Composer 670 (CDFM) tracker format was created by the demo group Renaissance. It notably powered the DOS game Zone 66. It uniquely combines two synthesis methods into one file: 4 channels of PCM (digital samples) and 9 channels of OPL2 (AdLib/FM) synthesis. The format supports far fewer pattern effects than standard trackers, primarily featuring commands to set note volume.

bam	Bob's Adlib Music
Bob's Adlib Music is a vintage, synthetic chiptune file format created by BriTech International and Hamster Republic Productions. It was specifically written to control the Yamaha YM3812 FM synthesis chip (better known as the OPL2 or "Adlib Chip") commonly found in legacy Sound Blaster sound cards. Unlike tracker formats that leverage the Adlib chip's percussion routines, BAM tracks strictly utilize the chip's "Melodic" playback mode. It contains zero digital audio samples. Instead, it uses small data commands to manipulate frequency modulation parameters to generate retro PC audio in real time.

pis	Beni Tracker
Native module format for Beni Tracker, a retro MS-DOS music tracker used to compose chiptunes using AdLib/OPL2 FM-synthesis sound chips. The extension .pis originated from the tool's unreleased predecessor, "Psychisch Tracker"

sat	Surprise! AdLib Tracker
The .SAT file extension is the native chiptune music module format created by Surprise! AdLib Tracker (SADT). Developed in the 1990s by the demoscene group Surprise! Productions, this MS-DOS software was designed specifically to sequence 9-channel FM synthesis audio using the retro Yamaha YM3812 (OPL2) sound chip. The initial versions of the tracker produced .SAT files (specifically tracking versions 1, 5, and 6 of the internal data structure). When the tracker was updated to version 2.0, the native output changed to the .SA2 extension (governing file structure versions 8 and 9).

sa2	Surprise! AdLib Tracker 2
The .SAT file extension is the native chiptune music module format created by Surprise! AdLib Tracker (SADT). Developed in the 1990s by the demoscene group Surprise! Productions, this MS-DOS software was designed specifically to sequence 9-channel FM synthesis audio using the retro Yamaha YM3812 (OPL2) sound chip. The initial versions of the tracker produced .SAT files (specifically tracking versions 1, 5, and 6 of the internal data structure). When the tracker was updated to version 2.0, the native output changed to the .SA2 extension (governing file structure versions 8 and 9).

amd	AMusic
The amd format is the native music module format for AMusic, an MS-DOS tracker developed by Elyssis in the early-to-mid 1990s. Its primary design goal was to bring the intuitive, pattern-based workflow of the popular Amiga ProTracker to the PC platform, but with a major twist: instead of sequencing digital PCM audio samples, it controls the registers of the Yamaha YM3812 (OPL2) FM synthesis chip found on standard AdLib and early Sound Blaster hardware. Closely mimics the classic 4-channel tracking layout, commands, and keyboard shortcuts of ProTracker, making it instantly familiar to Amiga musicians migrating to the PC. Converts classic tracker note values and volume commands directly into register instructions for the 9-channel AdLib sound chip. Files store specific OPL2 operator parameters—such as attack/decay rates, frequency multipliers, feedback levels, and vibrato toggles—to craft unique synthesizer patches. Designed alongside a highly optimized playback routine, allowing developers to embed .amd music into DOS games and demoscene productions with minimal CPU overhead.

ams	Velvet Studio / Extreme Tracker
The .ams file extension is a tracker module audio format created by both Velvet Studio and Extreme Tracker. Velvet Studio (specifically version 2.x) originally utilized the format as its Advanced Module System, while Extreme Tracker simultaneously used it for storing sequenced tracker music containing pattern data, instrument samples, and timing tracks. Because both retro programs generated the same .ams extension, legacy hardware and software tools (including yours truly ChipMachineAS) usually recognize them interchangeably.

dmo	Twin TrackPlayer
The .dmo file format is native to Twin TrackPlayer (created by TwinTeam). It contains tracker-style music data designed specifically to be played back on the hardware Ad Lib Music Synthesizer Card (utilizing the Yamaha YM3812 / OPL2 chip). Unlike modern digital audio (like MP3s or WAVs) that play back pre-recorded waveforms, .dmo files act like a set of digital sheet music. They store note frequencies, volumes, and custom instrument parameters (e.g., ADSR envelopes). The Ad Lib sound card then synthesizes this in real-time. Twin TrackPlayer was a niche DOS-era music tracker, primarily popularized by the composer Benjamin Gerardin. Because of its specialized nature, .dmo files are relatively rare and their Ad Lib music possesses a distinct "chiptune" or retro sound, reminiscent of classic 90s DOS games and demos.

tcb	TCB Tracker
The TCB Tracker format is a classic 4-channel tracker music format created by the demoscene group The CareBears for the Atari ST and STe computers. It operates much like a digital tape recorder, utilizing unique synth-driven sound capabilities to create 8-bit digital noise and classic chiptune soundtracks.

dfm	Digital-FM
The .dfm (Digital-FM) file format is a tracker-based music file originally used by the MS-DOS tracker program Digital-FM. It stores Frequency Modulation (FM) synthesis parameters and notes designed to be played back through the Yamaha YM3812 (OPL2) sound chip found on original Ad Lib sound cards. Instead of storing digital audio waveforms (like a .wav or .mp3), a .dfm file stores the instructions to build the sound. It contains note data alongside custom FM instrument definitions (attack, decay, sustain, release, and operator waveforms). The data is compiled into a single file. Because the Ad Lib card relied on FM synthesis and lacked digital audio (PCM) support, these files produce the classic "retro PC" or "Ad Lib" sound reminiscent of classic 1990s DOS games.

mtr	Max/MSP multi-track
The .mtr file format is an internal multi-track sequencing format natively used by Cycling '74's Max (formerly Max/MSP). It stores numeric sequences, events, or MIDI data. It is not a standard audio module format associated with classic AdLib trackers (like .rad, .a2m, or .amd). Because .mtr files capture raw sequence data rather than sound or synthesis instructions, they must be played back into designated synthesis or MIDI objects inside the Max environment to produce sound.

mix	Digi-Mix (Atari Falcon)
Most notably used for digital music and tracker/sample files specifically associated with Atari ST/STE. While the standard Atari ST utilized Yamaha chip files (often found as .ym or .sndh), several digital sampling and tracker programs (such as Digital Tracker or Digi-Mix) used .mix for tracked and uncompressed audio sample files. Unlike classic chiptunes which generate tones directly from the sound chip, .mix files typically store actual recorded or synthesized 8-bit or 4-bit digital audio samples.

mkj	MKJamz
Tracker/sequencer file native to MKJamz, a music-making and editing program developed by M\K Productions. It is an Ad Lib-compatible format that stores sequence and instrument data. MKJ files contain tracker-style notation mapping out instrument definitions and playback notes to generate sound through the classic OPL2/OPL3 Ad Lib sound chips. For context, MKJamz is part of a broader software family of Ad Lib tracker formats, such as ROL (Ad Lib Visual Composer). Because the Ad Lib hardware standard was essentially a synthesizer, these files act as digital sheet music rather than standard audio files like MP3s or WAVs.

cba	Chuck Biscuits / Black Artist
Chuck Biscuits / Black Artist (CBA) module format. historically used in Amiga demoscene releases, such as the Expoze musicdisk by the group Heretics.

xmf	Astroidea XMF
Astroidea XMF format is a proprietary audio container and tracker module used primarily in classic 1990s video games like Imperium Galactica. It is completely unrelated to the MIDI-based eXtensible Music Format (also .xmf) standardized by the MIDI Manufacturers Association.

xad	eXotic ADlib
eXotic ADlib Sound format, an audio format used to store 9-channel AdLib (OPL2/OPL3) FM synthesis music. It was primarily created by Riven the Mage and is a niche chiptune format associated with DOS/demogroup music trackers.

sdb	HERAD (Herbulot AdLib)
Proprietary music file used by the HERAD (Herbulot AdLib) sound system developed by Rémi Herbulot and Stéphane Picq. Designed for the Yamaha OPL2 (Sound Blaster / AdLib) chips, these files are primarily found in classic Cryo Interactive DOS games like Dune and KGB. Unlike simple MIDI files, .sdb files encode sequences directly for OPL2 frequency modulation (FM) synthesis and are usually packed with either HSQ or SQX compression algorithms. To interact with the raw data, you typically need to unpack these containers using tools like UNHSQ or a compatible player. The format's notation is similar to MIDI but relies on truncated events (such as Note Off velocity omission) and exclusive "macros" for parameters like modulator/carrier output levels, pitch bends, and automated vibrato. The layout mimics Ad Lib's .ins or .bnk formats for instruments but uses custom modulation commands.

jbm	Johannes Bjerregaard Module
The Johannes Bjerregaard Module (.jbm) is a rare, custom tracker chiptune file format created in 1991 by the Danish programmer and Commodore 64 musician Johannes Bjerregaard (also known as "Jozz"). It was designed specifically to play music on PC sound cards using the Yamaha OPL2 (YM3812) FM synthesis chip, most notably the legendary AdLib and Sound Blaster sound cards. Johannes Bjerregaard was an accomplished C64 composer who briefly transitioned his custom music-coding techniques to the PC platform. Unlike standard MIDI files or open-format trackers of the era, Bjerregaard built his own custom driver routine. The .jbm player acted similarly to traditional C64 music players where notes and instrument registers were manually typed or coded into the format rather than recorded in real time. The format targets the 9-channel AdLib card, generating pure algorithmic FM sound synthesis rather than utilizing digital audio samples. Sadly, the library of existing .jbm music is incredibly small. Bjerregaard only composed a handful of tracks in this exact format between 1991 and 1992 before moving on to a MIDI-based system called SEQPLAY.

fmt	FM Tracker
The .FMT file serves as the native instrument or song data format for FM Tracker (versions 1.1b and 1.45) and Adlib Tracker II, which generate synthesized chiptune music utilizing Yamaha OPL chips rather than digital audio samples.

agd	Ad Lib Gold (HERAD)
The .agd file format is an Ad Lib Gold music file used primarily in the classic DOS game Dune (1992) developed by Cryo Interactive. It is tied to the HERAD Music System, created by Remi Herbulot and composer Stéphane Picq, specifically designed to drive stereo OPL3-compatible sound chips. The acronym stands for "AdLib Gold". HERAD music is essentially a modified, custom MIDI format. It pairs MIDI notation with exclusive macros. These macros control instrument parameters like carrier/modulator output levels, feedback, and automated pitch bends. .agd files (along with .sdb files, which are for older OPL2 Ad Lib cards) are usually packed using the HSQ compression algorithm. Because it was built for the AdLib Gold, .agd files rely on stereo output and require an OPL3-compatible sound chip to play back correctly.

etx	EasyTrax
EasyTrax format is a classic Amiga tracker module. Like many historic 8-bit tracker formats, it uses sequenced musical notes and embedded PCM audio samples.

plm	Disorder Tracker 2
Disorder Tracker 2 is an obscure, MS-DOS-based chiptune tracker tool released in 1995 by the demoscene groups Statix and Psychic Link. It natively utilizes the .plm file extension to save tracker module music. While its core feature set is highly comparable to the legendary Scream Tracker 3 (.s3m), Disorder Tracker 2 stood out by breaking standard tracking layout conventions. Its horizontal order list (timeline) allowed for overlapping music patterns. Music patterns did not necessarily have to cover all audio channels, functioning much like a modern digital audio workstation (DAW) sequencer rather than a traditional rigid tracker.

as3m	AdLib Scream Tracker 3
The .as3m file format refers to AdLib music tracked and exported for use with Scream Tracker 3 (or AdLib-specific emulators). It contains OPL2/OPL3 FM synthesis commands and is generally used to play back chip-music using FM instruments without relying on digital samples. Unlike standard modules (.MOD or .S3M) that use digital PCM wave files, .as3m and AdLib S3Ms rely purely on FM synthesis. They dictate how frequencies, operators, and modulators should be configured on the sound card's chip. Scream Tracker 3 allows for 32 simultaneous tracks. Out of these, 9 are dedicated AdLib channels (usually labeled A1 through A9) intended for the 9-voice AdLib OPL2 synthesizer chip. The original DOS-based editor uses these instructions to program the Yamaha YM3812 (OPL2) or YMF262 (OPL3) sound chips directly in real-time.

xms	XMS-Tracker
The .xms (eXtra Simple Music or XMS-Tracker) file is a tracker module format originally created for the XMS-Tracker DOS software. It stores AdLib (OPL2/OPL3) FM synthesis instructions—such as notes, instrument parameters, and effects—rather than traditional audio samples.

sqx	HERAD SQX
The .sqx music format (often corresponding with .hsq, .sdb, or .agd files) belongs to the HERAD (Herbulot AdLib) Music System.This proprietary audio system was created in the early 1990s by Remi Herbulot (co-founder and lead programmer of Cryo Interactive Entertainment) and legendary video game composer Stéphane Picq. It was built to push the limits of FM synthesis on OPL2 and OPL3 sound chips, most notably featured in classic MS-DOS games like Dune (1992), KGB (1992), and MegaRace (1993). Unlike standard AdLib formats that rely purely on basic MIDI commands, HERAD utilizes advanced "macros". These control real-time internal register changes like automatic pitch bends, instrument feedback, and modulator/carrier output level tweaks linked to note velocity. This gave Cryo games their distinctively rich, atmospheric, and "expressive" synthesized soundtrack. The .sqx extension represents song data compressed using Cryo's custom SQX packing algorithm (closely related to their .hsq / Herbulot Squeeze format). Cryo compressed these tracks to bypass tight floppy disk storage limits without sacrificing the complexity of the arrangement. Tracks marked for the .sdb container target standard OPL2-compatible hardware like the Sound Blaster. Tracks marked for .agd target the advanced, short-lived AdLib Gold (OPL3) sound card to utilize extra channels and surround-sound features.

pmd	Professional Music Driver (PMD)
Professional Music Driver (PMD), created by Masahiro Kajihara (KAJA) in 1989, is a classic Music Macro Language (MML) driver primarily used for Japanese PC-98 games and Yamaha FM sound chips. You write PMD music using human-readable MML text. Notes, lengths, and effects are typed as plain text (e.g., A l8 cdefgab>c4) and mapped to specific sound channels. The PMD compiler converts your text script into a binary format. The .M extension is for standard tracks, .M2 is heavily used for OPNA (Yamaha YM2608) tracks, and .MZ is used for tracks utilizing custom PCM/ADPCM.

str	Sidplayer stereo voices
YES! STEREO SID! The .str and .mus formats are legacy music files created for Compute!'s Sidplayer system on the Commodore 64. While .mus files hold the first three voices (channels), .str files hold the extra voices (4-6) to create a Stereo SID effect across hard left/right channels. Mythical Commodore 65 (C65) was the only commercial computer supposed to actually have dual SID chips for stereo playback. It is estimated that between 50 to 2,000 units were ever made. Developed as a prototype successor to the C64, the project was cancelled in 1991, and surviving units were liquidated during Commodore's 1994 bankruptcy. Because it was never officially mass-produced or released, exactly how many units exist is debated. The exact production figures are typically estimated based on Fred Bowen (the chief designer of the C65) statement that only 50 units were built. However some independent estimates and collector groups (like the Commodore 64 Wiki) suggest that the number could range anywhere from 50 to 2,000 prototypes. Because of this extreme scarcity, original C65 prototypes are highly sought after by collectors and can sell for massive sums ($20,000 - $38,000) on the open market and eBay. The new retro-inspired FPGA computer MEGA65 includes an advanced audio subsystem featuring four internal FPGA soft-SID chips, providing a total of 12 independent voices. This allows the system to natively handle single-SID, dual-SID, and quad-SID songs out of the box with built-in stereo panning. Phew!

emul	Ay_Emul (ZXAY/EMUL)
The .emul file format is a native module used by the Ay_Emul software for Windows and Linux. It is an internal wrapper format that contains compiled Zilog Z80 processor code and data specifically designed to drive the AY-3-8912 sound chip used in the Sinclair ZX Spectrum 128. The .emul file is an .ay file variant characterized by the 'ZXAY' file identifier and the 'EMUL' (Emulation) type identifier. Instead of just logging register changes, it requires a Z80 virtual emulator to run the code snippets, which subsequently send signals to the AY sound chip. The file contains a header that specifies the file version and required player version, followed by relative pointers to blocks of memory. It handles all three programmable sound generator voices, noise channels, and even emulates the ZX Spectrum's 1-bit beeper!

ml	Musicline Editor
The .ml format is a proprietary native file extension used by the Musicline Editor (originally created on the Commodore Amiga). It contains fully synthetic tracker modules that store sequence lists, instruments, and real-time waveform processing data. .ml FilesSynth playback retains envelopes, arpeggios, sample loops, and real-time waveform effects (like phasing, resonance, and filters). It supports up to 256 subtunes (songbooks) per module and can play 4-, 5-, 7-, and 8-channel compositions.

sng	SNG (many unrelated formats)
The .SNG extension is one of the most heavily overloaded file formats in retro-computing history. Rather than representing a single standard, it was used independently by dozens of developers across multiple 8-bit, 16-bit, and PC platforms as a generic shorthand for "Song." Here is a breakdown of the distinct audio formats that share the .SNG extension, categorized by their native platforms and sound hardware. [1] Commodore 64 (SID Chip) GoatTracker: A highly popular modern cross-platform tracker used to compose music for the C64's MOS 6581/8580 SID chip. A GoatTracker .SNG file contains the patterns, instrument tables, and sequencer data before it is compiled into a playable binary (.SID). [2A] IBM PC (AdLib / Yamaha OPL FM Synthesis) Ad Lib SNG Player / AdLib Instrument Maker: An early MS-DOS format used by AdLib's official utilities to sequence music for the Yamaha OPL2 (YM3812) chip. [2B] Ad Lib Faust Music Creator (FMC): A German tracker-like sequencer for MS-DOS created by Marcus Faust, driving OPL2/OPL3 chips with its own unique .SNG layout. [3A] MSX Home Computers SCC-Musixx: A famous Dutch tracker for the MSX2 platform designed to drive the Konami SCC (Sound Creative Chip), a 5-channel wavetable chip, alongside the standard AY-3-8910. [3B] Zoundmonitor: A specialized music utility and tracker for the MSX platform that utilized .SNG for its song files. [4] Sam Coupé SNG: The Sam Coupé (a British 8-bit computer) utilized a Philips SAA1099 sound chip (6-channel stereo square wave generator). Several native trackers, including E-Tracker, saved raw song data as .SNG. [5] Amiga / Atari ST Game Engines - Richard Joseph Format: The legendary game composer Richard Joseph (Sensible Soccer, Cannon Fodder, The Chaos Engine) utilized custom music drivers on the Amiga and Atari ST. His proprietary sequencer outputs were frequently designated as .SNG files before being packed for game engines. [6] Other Vintage Platforms: Synder SNG-Player / Synder Tracker: Rare tracker and playback software from the European demoscene ecosystem, used to sequence chiptune data on 8-bit/16-bit architectures.

v2m	Farbrausch V2
The .V2M format is a highly specialized, ultra-compact audio format associated with the Farbrausch V2 synthesizer. It was created in the early 2000s by the German demoscene group Farbrausch (specifically by Tammo "kb" Hinrichs) to provide high-quality music for "64k intros"—executable computer art files restricted to exactly 64 kilobytes of storage space. Unlike standard tracker formats (.XM or .IT) that embed large, pre-recorded audio samples, a .V2M file contains zero digital audio samples. Instead, it functions as a highly optimized MIDI-like sequencer file bundled with a software synthesizer engine. The file stores the exact mathematical parameters (oscillators, filters, envelopes, and effects) required to generate instruments from scratch at runtime. It includes note data, polyphony instructions, and extensive automation routing to tweak the synth parameters dynamically as the song plays.

raw	Ad Lib OPL RAW capture
An Ad Lib OPL .raw capture is a low-level, register-by-register recording of the commands sent to a Yamaha YM3812 (OPL2) or OPL3 sound chip. Instead of containing digital audio wave data like an MP3, .raw files record the instrument parameters, note triggers, and frequency changes used by classic DOS games.

bgm	MuSICA (MSX BGM)
The .bgm MSX / MuSICA format refers to a compiled Background Music sequence file. It contains compiled Music Macro Language (MML) data specifically designed to be played back using ASCII's MuSICA driver alongside standard MSX sound chips, the Yamaha YM2413 (MSX-MUSIC), and Konami's SCC. The .bgm files were often compiled using MSX compiler tools (like mml2msd) to translate the text-based MML into the system's raw playback format.

aon	Art of Noise
The .aon format is a native song file produced by Art of Noise, a 4-channel and 8-channel tracker music software created for the Commodore Amiga between 1993 and 1996. These proprietary modules merged standard PCM samples with rudimentary 2-operator FM synthesis. Art of Noise was developed as a freeware tracker that distinguished itself from other popular, widespread trackers. Instead of relying entirely on static samples, it allowed users to modulate loop start and endpoints while a sample played, bringing wavetable synthesis techniques to the Amiga platform. It featured a built-in drum-sequencer, a large number of instrument slots, and an array of effect commands. While native .aon files have unique features, the pattern sizes and layouts were generally designed to remain compatible with older "MOD"/Protracker-style structures.

edl	EdLib Packed
The Ad Lib/EdLib packed format, typically seen with .edl or .d00 file extensions, is a legacy OPL2/OPL3 FM tracker format popularized by JCH/Vibrants in DOS. It is a compiled, read-only version of a song module that is stripped of the tracker's editor interface for lightweight playback. Created using the EdLib DOS tracker. Used interchangeably with .d00 (and sometimes .d01 for versions that contain external digital sample data). Because the format is "packed" for the standalone player, these files cannot be imported back into EdLib for editing once they are compiled. It outputs register writes directly to the Yamaha OPL (YM3812) sound chip, retaining the crisp, classic hardware sound of 90s PC DOS games and demoscene productions.

minigsf	Game Boy Advance Sound Format (mini)
The .minigsf format is a highly compressed audio format used specifically for Game Boy Advance (GBA) music. It acts as an emulated sound format, storing the sequence of musical notes and instructions sent to the console's audio chip rather than traditional pre-recorded audio. .minigsf file contains the specific track data, such as notes and sequencing, for an individual song, while the corresponding .gsflib file contains the actual instrument samples. A .minigsf file cannot play on its own -- it must be in the same directory as its corresponding .gsflib file for the audio to play properly.

dmu	Digital Mugician
The .dmu file format is a proprietary music module format created for the Digital Mugician (sometimes called Mugician) tracker on the Commodore Amiga. Developed by Thalamus Software in 1990 by Reinier van Vliet and Metin Seven, it is a highly capable format that allows musicians to mix standard sampled 8-bit sounds with custom synthesizer parameters.

mus	Sidplayer / FAC SoundTracker
The .mus format is most often associated with Compute!'s Sidplayer music system (created in 1984 by Craig Chamberlain) rather than the standard .sid (PSID/RSID) format. Unlike standard SID files (which contain compiled 6502 machine code and play routines), .mus files store raw command streams that control the C64's SID chip frequencies and envelopes. This is most common extension but it is also overloaded: FAC Soundtracker for MSX used .mus as well. ChipMachine plays that FAC SoundTracker MSX variant (Federation Against Commodore, 1990/1991): the PSG-plus-sampled-drum song is wrapped, together with its .SM1/.SM2 drumkit sample banks, into a KSS carrying FAC's own Z80 replay routine and rendered through libkss.

fls	Flash Tracker (ZX)
The .fls file format is used by the Flash Tracker chiptune utility on the ZX Spectrum. It is used to sequence music for the onboard 1-bit beeper or AY-3-8910 sound chip. Developed in the Russian demoscene, Flash Tracker (and its contemporary, Fast Tracker) provided a way to compose tracker-style module music for the standard 48K or 128K ZX Spectrum. The .fls format is primarily native to these older DOS/Spectrum utilities. It is not widely used for modern compositions because it is hardware-tied to the Z80’s specific CPU timing and sound routing.

prt	PreTracker
.prt is a proprietary format used by Pretracker. Developed by Pink/Abyss, PreTracker is a cross-development tracker used on Windows that precalculates synth instruments on song startup to create authentic, memory-efficient chip-music tailored for the Commodore Amiga. Unlike standard Amiga tracker formats like ProTracker (.MOD) or Scream Tracker which rely on raw 8-bit PCM audio samples, the .prt format functions more like a hardware synthesizer: instead of loading multi-kilobyte audio files, the software precomputes waveforms and instrument parameters before playback. It takes structural and sonic inspiration from the classic AHX (Abyss / HivelyTracker) format, producing a crunchy, "C64-style" sound on real Amiga hardware. It allows for highly polyphonic, complex melodies but without the memory limits associated with massive sample sets.

dss	Digital Sound Studio
.dss (Digital Sound Studio) is an Amiga audio/tracker format. It was used by the Digital Sound Studio software, which originally shipped with the GVP (Great Valley Products) DSS8 and DSS8+ parallel port sound samplers. The software included both an 8-bit sound sampler and a built-in tracker for composing. It stored custom tracked music data (similar to standard .MOD module files). While native to the DSS software, the tracker could often export instruments and patterns into standard Amiga formats like RAW or IFF-8SVX.

mm8	Amiga Music Maker v8
Amiga Music Maker v8 is a peculiar tracker used to create both algorithmic and sequenced chiptunes. The files are highly specialized to that software and cannot be played directly by standard media players. Its sister program is Music Maker v4. They were created by Thomas Shuriger as tracker/algorithmic music generators. Instead of writing every note manually, users could seed the software with algorithms that would auto-generate patterns, basslines, and melodies to create sequenced compositions. The .mm8 file acts as the native project and sequence container. These files contain pattern and sequencing data alongside references to the 8-bit PCM audio samples used to play the instruments.

mm4	Amiga Music Maker v4, predecessor of v8 (.mm8). 

sm1	FAC SoundTracker drumkit
The .sm1 and .sm2 files are the FAC Soundtracker (MSX) DRUMKIT sample banks: each holds the 8-bit percussion samples that a FAC SoundTracker song (.mus) loads, NOT a standalone tune. A .mus song names its drumkit, and ChipMachine fetches the matching <DRUMKIT>.SM1 + .SM2 pair alongside the song to render its drums (PSG + sampled drums). On their own these files contain no melody/sequence, so they are companion data rather than playable modules. (.sm1 is the FAC SoundTracker 1 drumkit format, .sm2 the FAC SoundTracker 2 one. Not to be confused with the unrelated Amiga "SoundMaster" .sm1/.sm2.)

sm2	FAC SoundTracker drumkit
The .sm1 and .sm2 files are the FAC Soundtracker (MSX) DRUMKIT sample banks: each holds the 8-bit percussion samples that a FAC SoundTracker song (.mus) loads, NOT a standalone tune. A .mus song names its drumkit, and ChipMachine fetches the matching <DRUMKIT>.SM1 + .SM2 pair alongside the song to render its drums (PSG + sampled drums). On their own these files contain no melody/sequence, so they are companion data rather than playable modules. (.sm1 is the FAC SoundTracker 1 drumkit format, .sm2 the FAC SoundTracker 2 one. Not to be confused with the unrelated Amiga "SoundMaster" .sm1/.sm2.)

mms	MMS Tracker (MultiMedia Sound)
Roman Werner, a prominent Swiss Amiga developer and musician, developed the .mms (MultiMedia Sound) tracker music format. In 1992, he co-created the music software MMS Tracker (published by Linel and Tension Software), which utilized this custom format to compose tracked module files on Amiga. MultiMedia Sound (MMS Tracker) was released in 1992–1994 as an alternative to mainstream Amiga trackers like ProTracker or OctaMED. Like standard Amiga .mod files, the .mms format is a module format combining custom sequencer data (patterns, notes, and effects) with raw, 8-bit digital instrument samples.

hip7	Hippel 7-voice
Created by legendary Amiga and Atari ST composer Jochen Hippel ("Mad Max"). The .hip7 extension specifically refers to his advanced 7-voice (7V) replay routine, which squeezed seven channels of audio out of the Amiga's native 4-channel hardware. The .hip7 format (along with its crunched/compressed variant .hipc) uses a mix of three standard hardware channels and four software-mixed channels. This clever routing provided incredible chip-music dynamics for games like Lethal Xcess and Wings of Death. Unlike standard .MOD files, .hip files are not just a collection of patterns and raw samples. They contain the music data embedded directly into an assembler playback routine.

minipsf	PlayStation Sound Format (mini)
A .minipsf file is a compressed music format used for PlayStation (PSX) and PlayStation 2 games. It contains the sequence data for a song and relies on a .psflib file in the same directory to provide the actual instrument samples and driver code.

doda	Special FX (Atari ST)
Special FX tracker for Atari ST (?) -- couldn't find anything more on the internet about this format except plenty of AI hallucinations.

mk2	Mark II Sound-System
The Mark II Sound-System (.mk2, .mkii) is a classic Amiga tracker and music format created by Darius Zendeh. Unlike later tracker formats that used a standalone GUI, the music was originally hand-written in Assembly language and uses distinct sound and instrument envelopes.

mpk	MPK (MSX)
An MPK file is MSX-specific chiptune music format associated with the MPK/MPK2 tracker and replayers. It primarily utilizes the PSG (AY-3-8910) and SCC sound chips and is often played back using MSX-DOS drivers like MPX or Multimente.

avp	Activision Pro
The Activision Pro format, a custom Amiga music and sound format utilized in games composed by Martin Walker. Unlike standard modules (such as .MOD), .avp files are not self-contained datasets. Instead, the music data is hardcoded and embedded directly into an assembler playback routine.

smufi	Picatune Soundtrack
A .SMUFI file is a Picatune Soundtrack file. That's about it. Nothing more available on the internet about this peculiar format. Cheers!

jb	A music format created by Jason C Brooke. Aaaand... that's about it. Enjoy it!

brt	BeRoTracker
The .brt file format is the native project and sequence format for BeRoTracker, a classic music tracker created by developer Benjamin "BeRo" Rosseaux. Unlike traditional sound formats that only output the final audio, a .brt file contains the complete editable arrangement, instrument data, pattern sequences, and audio samples. Like other module formats, it bundles the music's sequence and sample data together into a single file. BeRoTracker is well-known for its MIDI import feature, allowing users to convert standard MIDI files into tracker sequences and save them as .brt.

0cc	0CC-FamiTracker
The .0cc music format is the native project file extension used by 0CC-FamiTracker, a popular modified fork of the 8-bit chiptune tracker FamiTracker. These files are not playable audio (like MP3s); instead, they contain uncompiled tracker data used to create chiptune music specifically for the NES or compatible sound chips. The file stores note sequences, instruments, duty cycles, speed/tempo changes, and tracker effects, mapped to the NES's native sound channels (Pulse 1, Pulse 2, Triangle, Noise, and DPCM). Compared to the original FamiTracker, the 0CC version allows composers to use more advanced features, such as linear pitch, duty cycle effects, and extra expansion chips (like the Yamaha YM2413), while ensuring the data exports properly to compiled binaries.

kftm	KFTM (FamiTracker module)
A KFTM file is a highly specialized music tracker module used to save and share chiptune compositions, most commonly associated with retro tracker software. KFTM is a module file. Instead of containing raw audio (like a .wav or .mp3), it contains a vertical timeline of musical notes and integrated audio samples. When the file plays, the tracker triggers the samples at specific pitches to create the song. This was AI slop but not much more than that was available on the internet...

m4a	M4A (MPEG-4 Audio)
M4A stands for MPEG-4 Audio. It is an audio-only file format developed by Apple, typically encoded with either the lossy AAC codec for smaller file sizes or the lossless ALAC codec for pristine quality. It offers better sound quality than an MP3 at similar bitrates. While M4A files are native to the Apple Ecosystem and play seamlessly on iPhones, Macs, and iTunes, they are also widely supported by other major media players like VLC Media Player and Windows Media Player. M4A generally sounds richer and clearer than an MP3 of the same file size because of the efficiency of the AAC codec. It can be lossy (AAC) which discards some inaudible audio data to save space, or lossless (ALAC) which preserves the original studio sound. M4A excels at storing advanced metadata such as chapter markers, podcast lyrics, and high-resolution album art. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

aac	AAC (Advanced Audio Coding)
Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) is a highly efficient lossy audio format developed as a superior successor to MP3. By utilizing advanced psychoacoustic algorithms, it delivers higher-fidelity sound at lower bitrates and smaller file sizes, making it the industry standard for modern streaming platforms like YouTube and Apple Music. It is a lossy format, meaning some inaudible audio data is permanently discarded to reduce file size. AAC provides better frequency resolution and handles transient signals much more accurately than MP3. You get noticeably better audio clarity at the same or even a lower bitrate. Supports up to 48 full-bandwidth audio channels (for surround sound) and sampling rates up to 96 kHz. While the raw format is .aac, it is almost always packaged inside an MP4 container, using the .m4a or .mp4 filename extension. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

mpeg	MPEG audio
MPEG audio (or audio/mpeg) refers to a suite of standardized, lossy digital audio compression formats developed by the Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG). The most common implementations are MP3 (MPEG-1 Layer III) and AAC (MPEG-4), which significantly reduce file sizes while maintaining high perceived audio quality. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

ac3	AC3 (Dolby Digital)
AC3 (Audio Codec 3) is a proprietary lossy audio format developed by Dolby Laboratories, widely known as Dolby Digital. It is designed to deliver multi-channel surround sound (up to 5.1 channels) for DVDs, Blu-ray discs, and digital TV broadcasts while maintaining small, manageable file sizes. Could be considered cheating here (Scandal! Scandal!) but some amazing songs are only available in this format so pedants be damned!

vt	Vic-Tracker
VIC-TRACKER is a full-featured music tracker for the Commodore VIC-20, written by Daniel Kahlin (first version 1994, VIC-TRACKER 2.0 in 2004). A .vt file is a raw VIC-20 program: a $3300 load address followed by the tracker's "T1" (or legacy "T0") tune struct holding the sounds, arpeggio and portamento tables, pattern lists and pattern data. There is no digitized audio and no separate replayer file - the music is generated in real time by the VIC-20's 6560/6561 "VIC-I" chip (three square-wave tone oscillators, one noise channel and a shared 4-bit volume, at $900A-$900E), driven by the tracker's own 6502 interrupt routine that is embedded in the corpus and re-run here on an emulated CPU. Tunes may contain several subsongs and play at PAL or NTSC interrupt rates (1x-4x). Composers of the modland corpus include Daniel Kahlin, Anders Carlsson and others from the VIC-20 chip scene.

sm3	Sound Master v3
A later revision of Michiel Soede's Sound Master synthetic music routine for the Amiga (see also .sm and .smpro). Sound Master was a synth-sound editor used mostly by Jeroen Soede; the .sm3 files carry the version 3 replayer's tune data rather than sampled modules.

sc	Sound Control
A music editor created by Holger Gehrmann for the Amiga, and the source of the .sc/.sct extensions. Sound Control is driven by Gehrmann's own replay routine and is a sibling of his other tools (see also .sct, Soundcontrol).

hot	Anders Oland
An obscure Amiga custom music format played by the "Anders Oland" EaglePlayer/DeliTracker routine. Like most custom Amiga formats it bakes the tune data into a dedicated Motorola 68000 replay routine rather than using a shared module structure, so a player must run the original replay code to produce sound.

emod	Quadra Composer
The native module format of Quadra Composer, an Amiga music editor for four sampled voices that supports up to 256 patterns. The editor introduced the EMOD file format, an IFF-style "FORM....EMOD" container that stores the samples, pattern data and the 68000 replay code together in one file.

synmod	SynTracker
The native format of SynTracker, an Amiga synthetic-sound tracker. Rather than relying purely on sampled instruments it builds its voices from drawn or synthesised waveforms, in the tradition of SidMon and Future Composer.

sog	Hippel
A modern replay prefix for Jochen Hippel's music (see also .hip and .hipc). On modland the .sog files are actually the Hippel-ST variant: TFMX-derived data (magic "TFMX") written for Hippel's Atari ST driver, which is decrunched and played back by the Jochen Hippel ST replayer rather than the Amiga Hippel player.

glue	GlueMon
An Amiga music format played by the GlueMon EaglePlayer routine (also seen with the .gm prefix). It is one of the many small custom Amiga players catalogued by DeliTracker/EaglePlayer for tunes that do not fit a mainstream tracker format.

aero	Aero Studio
The native song format of Aero Studio, an Amiga music editor/tracker. Aero Studio tunes are played back through the program's own dedicated replay routine.

plx	Palladix Sound System
The PALLADIX Sound System format, a PC AdLib/OPL2 music format used in a handful of early-1990s MS-DOS games, most notably Rainbow Arts' Logical. It is one of the many OPL2 music formats handled by the AdPlug library.

kt	klystrack
The native format of klystrack, a modern open-source chiptune tracker by Kometbomb. klystrack emulates SID/NES/Atari/OPL2-style synthesis (additive synthesis with filters, hard sync, ring modulation, FM, wavetables) and ships a tiny playback library so .kt tunes can be embedded directly in games and demos.

kdm	Ken's ADLib Music
The AdLib/OPL2 FM music format created by Ken Silverman for his own MS-DOS games, most famously Ken's Labyrinth (1993). A .kdm file stores FM-synthesis instrument definitions and pattern/sequence data for the OPL2 chip, driven by Silverman's own player routine (hence the modland format name "Ken's ADLib Music"). It is a PC AdLib format, not a sampled or Amiga one.

ims	Images Music System
The Images Music System format, a custom Amiga music routine associated with Images Design (the studio behind the .is "Images" packer), used in their late-1980s and early-1990s Atari-ST-to-Amiga game conversions.

tss	TSS
An obscure Amiga custom music format, recognised by ChipMachine's internal Amiga format table. As with other exotic Amiga formats, the file couples the tune data with a dedicated replay routine that a player must execute to generate the sound.

liq	Liquid Tracker
Liquid Tracker, an MS-DOS tracker written by Nir Oren (magic "Liquid Module:"). It offered features ahead of many of its DOS contemporaries, such as flexible panning, note-off handling and variable pattern lengths, but never reached the popularity of ScreamTracker or FastTracker.

buz2	Buzzic 2
The native format of Buzzic 2, an Amiga synth tracker and the successor to Buzzic. Like its predecessor it generates its voices from synthetic waveforms rather than sampled instruments.

fmf	Pixel Painters FMF
The "FM Format" created by the Pixel Painters Corporation for their MS-DOS games. An .fmf file holds either OPL2 (AdLib) FM-synthesis data or PC-speaker data; Pixel Painters later moved to their LDS (Loudness Sound System) format.

lion	Sonic Arranger (Lionheart)
A variant of the Sonic Arranger music format (see also .sa), named after Thalion's game Lionheart, whose acclaimed soundtrack by Martin Iveson (Nuke) was composed in Sonic Arranger. The tune data is driven by the Sonic Arranger replay routine.

smpro	Sound Master Pro
The "Pro" revision of Michiel Soede's Sound Master synthetic music routine for the Amiga (see also .sm and .sm3), used mostly by Jeroen Soede.

ma	Music Assembler
The native format of Music Assembler, an Amiga synthetic music editor. Tunes are arranged as a synthetic multi-voice piece and driven by the Music Assembler replay routine.

t0ast	The 0ok Amazing Synth Tracker
The native format of "The 0ok Amazing Synth Tracker" (T0AST), an Amiga synthetic-sound tracker that builds its instruments from generated waveforms rather than samples.

ftf	Pixel Painters FTF
The "FT Format", a little-used music format created by the Pixel Painters Corporation for their 1994 MS-DOS game Xatax. It is a close relative of the same company's FMF/FM format.

fmk	FM-KingTracker
The native module format of FM-KingTracker, an MS-DOS AdLib/OPL tracker. Like the other AdLib formats it targets the Yamaha OPL2 FM chip (Sound Blaster / AdLib cards) rather than sampled audio, so it is grouped under PC AdLib, not Amiga.

arp	Arpeggiator
The Arpeggiator music format for the Amiga, played by the "Major Tom" EaglePlayer replay routine (the same player that also handles Thomas Hermann and MajorTom tunes).

vss	Voodoo Supreme Synthesizer
The Voodoo Supreme Synthesizer format, an obscure synthetic music format for the Amiga driven by its own dedicated replay routine.

vge	VGM Music Maker
A VGM Music Maker module. VGM Music Maker is a homebrew tracker for the Sega Mega Drive/Genesis that composes FM (YM2612) and PSG (SN76489) music directly for the console's sound hardware.

fnk	Funktracker
Funktracker, an MS-DOS tracker by Elias Ehlin (magic "Funk"), released in the mid-1990s as FunktrackerGOLD and a DOS32 build. It is a sample-based tracker with its own set of effect commands.

dsyn	Digital Symphony
Digital Symphony, a sample-based tracker for the Acorn Archimedes / RISC OS. The .dsyn (and .dysn) spellings are a modland misspelling of the usual .dsym extension; the format supports the machine's stereo sound hardware.

cff	BoomTracker
The BoomTracker format, a PC AdLib/OPL2 tracker format. It is one of the many OPL2 music formats supported by the AdPlug library.

syn	Synthesis
A synthetic Amiga music format played by the "Synth" (Synthesis) EaglePlayer replay routine, which generates its voices from synthesised waveforms.

hst	Jochen Hippel ST
Jochen Hippel's Atari ST music format. The data is TFMX-derived (magic "TFMX") and is decrunched and driven by the Jochen Hippel ST replayer; on the Amiga side the same music appears via the .sog and .soc prefixes.

gym	Sega Genesis GYM
A Sega Mega Drive / Genesis sound log; the name stands for Genesis YM2612. A .gym file is a raw dump of every register write sent to the console's Yamaha YM2612 FM chip (and SN76489 PSG), sampled 60 times a second, as popularised by the Genecyst emulator. It stores no samples of its own, so complete songs can be large; GYM is the YM2612 precursor to the VGM format, which later superseded it.

dm	DeltaMusic 1.x
DeltaMusic 1.x, the first version of Bent Nielsen's synthetic Delta Music editor for the Amiga (see also .dm2, DeltaMusic 2.0).

dtl	Drum Traker
Drum-pattern data for Drum Traker, an AdLib/OPL2 (AdLib / Sound Blaster) drum tool for MS-DOS; on modland these files live under "Ad Lib/Drum Traker". Each .dtl typically holds a single percussion pattern (snare, bass, cymbal, ...) for the OPL rhythm channels rather than a whole song, so it is grouped under PC AdLib, not Amiga.

bsf	BoyScout
An Amiga music format played through UADE / EaglePlayer; on modland the tunes live under the "BoyScout" format folder. Like other custom Amiga formats it couples the tune data with a dedicated Motorola 68000 replay routine that the player must execute to produce sound.

mvm	MVX Module
The MVX Module format, an Amiga music format played through UADE / EaglePlayer (modland format folder "MVX Module"). It is one of the many small custom Amiga replayers catalogued by DeliTracker/EaglePlayer.

msm	MegaStation MIDI
MegaStation MIDI, an Amiga music format played through UADE / EaglePlayer (modland format folder "MegaStation MIDI"). As the name suggests it is a MIDI-style sequenced format rendered on the Amiga's Paula sound chip via its own replay routine.

trk	RamTracker
The native format of RamTracker, an Amiga tracker whose tunes are played through UADE / EaglePlayer (modland format folder "RamTracker"). Note that a .trk suffix is also seen inside some ZX Spectrum filenames that are really .pt3 (Vortex/AY) files; those are unrelated to RamTracker.
